Title: Christie’s AI Art Sale Defies Controversy, Surpasses Expectations
Date: 2025-03-05T20:19:21+00:00
Content:
Christie’s first-ever auction dedicated toartificial intelligence-generated art,Augmented Intelligence, concluded on Wednesday, March 5, exceeding estimates and, according to the auction house, drawing a fresh wave of collectors.
The sale amassed $728,784, the auction house said in a press release, outpacing its $600,000 projection.
Notably nearly half of bidders, 48 percent, identified themselves as Millennials or Gen Z, while 37 percent were first-time buyers at Christie’s. The highest-grossing lot,Machine Hallucinations – ISS Dreams – Aby Refik Anadol, fetched $277,200—well above its $200,000 estimate.Related ArticlesChristie's Post-War to Present Spring Auction Yields $21.3 M., Led By $2.1 M. Helen FrankenthalerLarry Gagosian Talked the Future with CBS: 'I'm Not Ready to Pass the Reins'
Holly Herndon & Mat Dryhurst’sdiptychEmbedding Study 1 & 2 (from the xhairymutantx series)was another high point, bringing in $94,500 on an estimate of between $70,000 and $90,000. The sale, which made up of 34 lots, had an 82 percent sell through rate.
The auction proceeded despite fierce opposition from thousands of artists, who have arguedAImodels of exploiting human creativity without consent. An open letter,signed by nearly 4,000 individuals, urged Christie’s to cancel the event, alleging that AI-generated artworks rely on datasets trained using copyrighted material without compensation.
The letter ended with a plea: “Your support of these models, and the people who use them, rewards and further incentivizes AI companies’ mass theft of human artists’ work. We ask that, if you have any respect for human artists, you cancel the auction.”
In response, the auction house defended the legitimacy of the featured artists, framing AI as a tool for creative expansion rather than replacement. “The artists represented in this sale have strong, existing multidisciplinary art practices, some recognized in leading museum collections,” the auction house toldARTnewsat the time. “The works in this auction are using artificial intelligence to enhance their bodies of work.”
In the press release, Nicole Sales Giles, vice president and director of digital art sales, said “with this project, our goal was to spotlight the brilliant creative voices pushing the boundaries of technology and art. We also hoped collectors and the wider community would recognize their influence and significance in today’s artistic landscape. The results of this sale confirmed that they did.”
While some digital artists,including Beeple, championed the sale, others decried it as emblematic of the ongoing struggle between human artistry and machine-driven innovation. The results, however, suggest that AI art—controversial as it may be—is carving a firm place in the market.
----------------------------------------
Title: Hauser & Wirth’s Manuela Restaurant Carries on a New York Tradition: “Eat Dinner, Take Meetings and Die.”
Date: 2025-03-07T10:00:00+00:00
Content:
New York is a pretty sick town. Not in the “bro, that’s sick” way. Morbid, ill, macabre. The sickness has a lot to do with how disastrously emphasized the “New” in “New York” is with each passing generation. Forget what came before you. Just accept that things change. Enjoy the present while it lasts.
While eating at the new New York restaurant Manuela in SoHo, I had only one thought: Our present sucks. To be blunt: Manuela is quite nice. The food is obviously excellent; even better are the people who work there. It’s the streets around it that are decadent and depraved, and blandly so. Manuela, a spinoff of an LA restaurant by Hauser & Wirth’s hospitality arm Artfarm, can’t help but be caught in the crossfire.Related ArticlesAnna Odell Was Impregnated in a Psychiatric Ward, Then Made an Unlikely Film About ItIn Her Spiritual Art, Portia Zvavahera Paints the Tension between Her Dreamworld and the Everyday
Manuela is located at 130 Prince Street. Across the street, at 127 Prince Street, was Gordon Matta-Clark’s FOOD, the artist-run restaurant opened in 1971, designed to provide struggling artists with a dining-room and a kitchen to prepare low-cost meals and to develop a warm community. Struggling artists. Low-cost. Community. Now, in 2025, across the street, artsy types can get a good half-chicken for $42, a good steak tartare for $26, good cream biscuits with country ham for $16, and bone-in ribeye for two with green peppercorn sauce, $175. Cool. Everyone here looks well fed and taken care of. And 127 Prince is no longer operated by Matta-Clark, but by Marc Jacobs.
When I dined at Manuela with “the girls”—K.C., V.G., and J.S.—it was a chilly Galentine’s Day. At first, we went to the wrong door, one sealed-off, locked, and labeled “V.I.P.” Through the glass, we could see a private dining table seven meters long, studded with mosaic pieces by Rashid Johnson. Before we sipped our amaretto upon it, we were told the table was a tribute to the Central Park Five.
This elite space is cordoned off from the rest of the restaurant, which is elsewhere strewn with tables painted in bright primary-school colors, and looked down upon by artworks of various sorts: a Phillip Guston painting of his wife Musa here, a Cindy Sherman photograph of a panicked girl there. A Louise Bourgeois spider guides you down to the toilets.
Manuela’s website sells its cuisine, culture, and community as being “complemented by the guiding conviction that art and life are indivisible.” Sure! Yet that indivisibility feels more like a sick parody with each new day, especially in SoHo. Bordering Manuela is a new McNally Jackson location; the bookstore just moved over to live among the hubbub of boutiques. There, before my dinner, I bought a collection of Gary Indiana’sVillage Voicecolumns,Vile Days.His words guide me through these early days of 2025. In 1988, he wrote: “I have avoided New York nightlife for years. Everything always looks to me like a stale parody of something else. Sexual opportunity is dead. So is romance. All anyone does any more is eat dinner, take meetings and die.” Some things don’t change.
The food was good. The hospitality, beyond lovely. The atmosphere, equally conducive to a business meeting with an artist as a gossip session with the girls. At our tables, we talk of everyone’s love lives, thriving or failing, as I ogle a Rita Ackermann mural opposite me, with three “bored nymphettes”(Artnet’s wording)sprawled across a sofa scribbled with the questionWHAT DID YOU DO TODAY?That day, all K.C. did was make plans with me to reread Dostoyevsky’s short story “White Nights” (1848), watch the Bresson film based upon it (Four Nights of a Dreamer,1971), and wonder out loud how much of the food was made in the open kitchen opposite her versus how much had been prepared in the wings.
K.C. recognized a good friend’s cousin, Molly, as our waitress. Molly is the kindest. She should be tipped generously, always, by all of you. We had a fabulous old time. And yet, crowded by insured masterworks, the experience is subtly creepy, as with other works of art turned into fun “experiences”—Luna Luna, immersive Van Gogh, Infinity Rooms.
We go our separate ways for the night. I make plans the next day to see if “White Nights” is at the used bookstore I frequent. Later, when I find out it is not, I return to the McNally Jackson SoHo, next to Manuela on Prince.
But before then, the final verdicts on our dinner. Ladies?
V.G.: “So good! One of my favorite nights ever.”
J.S.: “Ten out of ten. Would go back, if I could afford it.”
----------------------------------------
Title: Art Institute of Chicago Returns Stolen Buddha to Nepal
Date: 2025-03-06T17:36:57+00:00
Content:
TheArt Institute of Chicago(AIC) this week announced the return ofBuddha Sheltered by the Serpent King MuchalindatoNepal, acknowledging that the 12th-century sculpture was stolen from Guita Bahi in the Kathmandu Valley.
The decision follows new provenance research and collaboration with Nepalese officials,the museum said. The return comes as institutions are being increasingly driven—or forced—to restitute and repatriate stolen cultural goods.
The statue, which depicts the Buddha protected by the serpent king during a storm, has been on display at the museum since 1997. “This return reflects the importance of provenance research as well as the Art Institute’s proactive outreach and collaboration with countries and communities,” said Jacques Schuhmacher, the museum’s executive director of provenance research, in a statement.Related ArticlesLooted Figurine of a Female Deity, Once Owned by a Met Trustee, Returned to TurkeyGerman Museum Will Keep Pissarro in Settlement with Heir of Persecuted Owner
The Nepalese government welcomed the move. “This sacred sculpture is a carrier of stories, traditions, and values … its return strengthens the bond between heritage and community, ensuring future generations can connect with their history,” said Sharad Raj Aran, of Nepal’s embassy in Washington, D.C. The repatriation not only strengthens Nepal’s cultural heritage but also sets a precedent for future cooperation between Nepal and the AIC.
The AIC maintains one of the largest provenance research teams in the US, underscoring a broader institutional shift toward addressing problematic acquisitions. The return of the Muchalinda Buddha is part of agrowing trend in the museum world, with many institutions now facing increased scrutiny over the provenance of artworks in their collections.
----------------------------------------
Title: Sula Bermudez-Silverman
Date: 2025-03-06T18:27:29+00:00
Content:
By providing your information, you agree to ourTerms of Useand ourPrivacy Policy.
 We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services.
Ghostly staircases, donkey bridles, fragmented toy parts, and farming tools coalesce in Sula Bermudez-Silverman’s breakout solo show, an ode to the mold-making process. The works are deftly crafted studies in polarities: tenderness and brutality, subject and object, original and copy. She revels in the joints, seams, and other mechanisms of mass production, revealing the inner workings of exploitative American industries, such as tobacco farming, which relied on brutal slave labor.
Rigorously conceived sculptures made from delicate materials—molten glass, pillows swathed in iridescent silk—are bound and yoked by tools that were once used to rake, trim, and mow crops, or control farm animals. An image of a mule—a hybrid species bred to work—appears as a motif on a honey-colored glass sheet that mimics the stamp for Brown’s Mule chewing tobacco (amulatamiento, all works 2025). The piece’s title refers to a disease that can afflict tobacco plants.
While the artist’s sculptures are rarely figurative, they almost always reflect corporeal forms. Takeblister i, an amethyst-colored orb that is nearly cleaved in half, almost like a cell splitting in mitosis. The rusty, menacing part bisecting the voluptuous glass simultaneously threatens and cradles the fragile material. Inblister iv,the glass is harnessed and reigned into place by an iron bridle. It seems to ooze out of the metal armature, resembling the fecund form of the 30,000-year-old Venus of Willendorf.
The star of the show isvestige, a trompe l’oeil pewter cabin that looks like buffed metal but is in fact made of MDF, paint, and wood. Created to mimic a domestic object—a midcentury ice cream mold—it is hinged and stamped with the numeral 508, perhaps a reference to the software error code for an infinite loop. The oversize dollhouse takes on a dark and poignant layer of meaning because the artist’s childhood home in Altadena, California, burned down during the recent wildfires.
By providing your information, you agree to ourTerms of Useand ourPrivacy Policy.
 We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services.
----------------------------------------
Title: From Lehman Maupin: In the Studio with Todd Gray
Date: 2025-02-06T18:12:24+00:00
Content:
By providing your information, you agree to ourTerms of Useand ourPrivacy Policy.
 We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services.
Step into Todd Gray’s Los Angeles studio, where the artist invites us to question the relationship between meaning and images. Citing the influence of cultural theorist Stuart Hall, Gray also examines our ideas around the African diaspora, colonialism, and societal power dynamics.
The film coincides with Gray’s solo exhibition,While Angels Gaze, on view at Lehmann Maupin in New York January 23–March 22, 2025.
By providing your information, you agree to ourTerms of Useand ourPrivacy Policy.
 We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services.
----------------------------------------
Title: Hannah Hoffman Gallery
Date: No Publication Date
Content:
By providing your information, you agree to ourTerms of Useand ourPrivacy Policy.
 We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services.
By providing your information, you agree to ourTerms of Useand ourPrivacy Policy.
 We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services.
----------------------------------------
Title: ‘An impossible stillness that artists have chased’: Alvaro Barrington on Piero della Francesca’s Baptism of Christ
Date: 2025-01-07T17:22:06.586Z
Content:
Alvaro Barrington in front of Piero della Francesca’sThe Baptism of Christ(1437-45)Photo: David Dawson
A hefty tome about the National Gallery in London comes hot on the heels of the museum’s 200th anniversary celebrations.TheNational Gallery: Paintings, People, Portraits, published this month by Taschen, includes a history of the institution and takes readers through key periods in art.
One of the highlights is a section devoted to favourite works in the collection, selected by celebrities, creatives, curators and artists. Among those talking about their preferred National Gallery painting are Frank Auerbach, Flora Yukhnovich and Rachel Whiteread.
Notably, Piero della Francesca’sThe Baptism of Christ(1437-45)has been selected by three artists. David Hockney calls it a “truly a magnificent picture”, while Antony Gormley says its stillness suggests “another world free from pain and uncertainty”. In the extract below, the Venezuela-born, London-based artist Alvaro Barrington tells us why he thinks the painting is so special.
Sometime around 2010, a shift was beginning to happen for young American painters. The artist Philip Guston began to be more relevant for our generation than his close high-school friend, the painter Jackson Pollock. It was a moment when, at least in the north-eastern corners of America, more and more artists were becoming increasingly explicit about how art and politics, chosen and not-chosen identities, were informing what they painted. For me, a kid who grew up in hip-hop with rappers like Tupac and Biggie and Lil’ Kim, the subject of Guston’s paintings felt quite in keeping with what I understood was in the domain of art, so he immediately became a guiding light. When the time came to choose where to study, I read Guston’s essayPiero della Francesca: The Impossibility of Painting(1965). I also found out that once, after opening a show, he came to London to look at Piero della Francesca and Uccello. If I could understand Piero, I could understand painting.
Painting, as [with] all art forms, works within a logic of its own potential. Another way of putting it, is a phrase I frequently heard in art school: “there needs to be meaning in the making”. The effect of a painting on someone is embedded in its making. InThe Baptism of Christ, the most written about possibility is the stillness that Piero achieved. By contrast, think of Piet Mondrian’sBroadway Boogie Woogie(1942-43), and the impossibility of the eye to stay still when looking at it. There is a balance inThe Baptism of Christthat allows one’s eyes and body to rest, to stay still, while at the same time one’s eyes move without struggle across the painting. Stillness is a common concept in Christianity, and here was Piero making meaning in the making in the most brilliant way possible. There is a straight line right down the middle, from the dove to the water being poured over Christ’s head to his hands palmed together. The lean in his leg and John the Baptist’s, the curve of the water, the openness of the sky weighed against the cramped angels under the trees, the figure in the background whose arched back follows the roundness of the frame—it all forms an impossible stillness that many contemporary artists, including me, have chased in their own paintings.
•The National Gallery: Paintings, People, Portraits, Taschen, 582pp, £175 (hb)
This extract from a new book about works in the Dulwich Picture Gallery by Helen Hillyard and Jennifer Scott reveals the story behind the artist's 1663 portrait of Lady Digby
In this exclusive extract from a new book about Henry VIII’s six wives, the art historian Suzannah Lipscomb writes about “perhaps the greatest artistic patron of them all”
An extract from a new book by Sebastian Smee—about the Impressionists during the Siege of Paris and Paris Commune—brings to life the peculiar episode of artistic intervention
Our round-up of the latest art publications
----------------------------------------
Title: Artists in the US feel impact of Trump’s tariffs in rising material costs
Date: 2025-03-05T20:16:18.057Z
Content:
Jennifer Ling Datchuk is finding it difficult sourcing broken porcelain from China
Photo: courtesy the artist
Artists in the US are once again watching macroeconomic events come to bear on their studios as PresidentDonald Trump’s trade policies impact the global marketplace for materials. On 1 February he announced new tariffs of 10% on imports from China (sinceraised to 20%), as well as 25% tariffs on imports from Mexico andCanada. But even before they took effect on Tuesday (4 March), their impacts were causing havoc for artists in the US who rely on imported raw materials and overseas fabricators.
When the Arizona-based artistJennifer Ling Datchuktravelled to the porcelain city of Jingdezhen in western China in 2024, she wanted to make plaster moulds and procure ceramics. The ceramics she wanted were large broken works that she scavenged from the garbage and the plaster moulds were cheap. “Plaster costs nearly nothing,” she says, but US customs officials told her that, for tariff reasons, she had to give the items a value. They “kept telling me we’re in a trade war”, she adds. “I had to pay an extra 7% on things that are essentially worthless. I spent $2,500 shipping home crates of broken material.”
In January Datchuk ordered hair from a factory in Shenzhen for an upcoming exhibition and the shipment was temporarily halted when the United States Postal Service refused incoming shipments from China. “It’s like every day there is a new thing,” she says. She adapted her practice to other materials in 2022 when acrylic, hair and kiln products, all imported from China, became scarce or expensive. “I don’t even know how I can pivot at this point.”
On 12 March, 25% global tariffs on steel and aluminium imports to the US are due to come into effect. The US imports 70% of its aluminium; 60% arrives from Canada, tariff-free. There are few American aluminium smelters, and sheltering domestic producers from international competition is unlikely to help prices, since previous tariffs had little impact on aluminium production in the US, which is at its lowest level in 100 years.
Works by Pard MorrisonCourtesy the artist
“That 25% increase on my material is a game-changer,” says the Colorado Springs-based artistPard Morrison. He makes colourful aluminium sculptures, like paintings folded around metal columns, which can live outdoors without rusting because of his choice of material. He watched the price of aluminium triple in 2022 and never retreat. He has already seen changes in the shipping costs for aluminium ahead of the tariffs coming into effect this month, but he has opted not to stockpile material to lock in today’s prices. “That is a gamble,” he says. “It does me no good to have a studio full of raw aluminium if there is no collector base.”
Artists working on projects commissioned through both public art initiatives and private collectors have had to adopt a wait-and-see attitude since Trump’s re-election. The Boulder, Colorado-based sculptorRoger Reutimannsays the clearest impact of the tariff threats thus far has been a sense of insecurity among collectors. “I see people holding back with spending,” he says. As a sculptor working at monumental scale, often in steel, Reutimann estimates that at least one third of his art’s sale price goes to fabrication and materials.
Donald Trump with his 10 February executive order on tariffs and the US commerce secretary Howard Lutnick
Photo: Andrew Harnik/Getty Images
Demand for Chinese goods and services in the US continues to grow for the simple reason that they are inexpensive. Many artists work with fabricators in China for casting or stainless steel, particularly polished steel in which the metal produces a mirrored effect. “It is 200 to 300 hours of labour and that adds up,” Reutimann says. “If I did it locally, it [would] cost $30,000. But if I have it done in China, it is $5,000.”
While supervising a project in China a few years ago, Reutimann says he was appalled by the conditions for the steel workers, and started to plan how to move away from a reliance on Chinese production. Amid the mounting trade war he is now conducting test pours with resin that is manufactured in the US, as an alternative to steel. “The process involves a great deal of trial and error—mostly error—but it presents a compelling contemporary alternative to traditional metal casting,” he says.
While some artists are trying new materials and redesigning projects, others have become more astute at contractual protections and monitoring markets. The Colorado-based sculptorStephen Shachtmansays he closely follows fluctuations in the stock of Nucor, the largest steel producer in the US, and times his orders accordingly. “I placed a big order for materials on [10 February] the day the tariffs were announced,” he says. Since he does most of his own fabrication work and is equipped to store raw materials, he can mitigate some of the risks that others cannot. As an additional insurance against fluctuations in the price of steel, he is revisiting how he writes contracts for public art projects.
Stephen Shachtman working on the armature for a sculptureCourtesy Stephen Shachtman
When a municipality or institution commissions work, the time between budgeting and when funds are released can be long, especially when a work is a component of a larger development project. If an artist transacts on materials months or even years after submitting estimates to a commissioning body, the artist or fabricator will have to absorb the risk and any loss due to changes in the price of materials. Many fabricators and artists are now adopting contract protections such as 10% or larger contingencies for material price changes on top of the artist fee, and budgets that used to be guaranteed for at least three months are now sometimes good for only 30 days.
Every decision or indecision regarding raw materials has consequences for US artists, especially those whose practices rely on being able to source specific materials. The Colorado-based artistWayne Brungard, who produces sculptures of bronze that appear to float on hardwood supports, saw the price of his rolled bronze jump from $2 a pound to $7 a pound in 2022, when his US supplier sent production to China and discontinued the product. Now he imports bronze from Germany at $12 a pound, an enormous price increase considering his sculptures routinely weigh more than 300lbs. Still, he is absorbing the rising material costs, he says, “because it is so beautiful”.
‘A rippling impact across our sector’: Canada’s art trade is seeking to lessen its dependence on US buyers to soften the blow of 25% tariffs on imports
New 10% tax will come into force on 1 September and apply to all works originating from China, regardless of where they are imported from
Trump's tariff of 15% on Chinese art that went into effect 1 September also applies to the antiquarian trade, further frustrating dealers and auction houses
Auction houses and art dealers express ‘relief’ even as the US-China trade war escalates
----------------------------------------
Title: Was a new Van Gogh really discovered at a garage sale? Here’s why I remain unconvinced
Date: 2025-02-07T14:18:00.000Z
Content:
Elimar: Is the artist Van Gogh ($15,000,000) or not ($50)?
Adventures with Van Gogh is a weekly blog by Martin Bailey, our long-standing correspondent and expert on the artist. Published every Friday, his stories range from newsy items about this most intriguing artist to scholarly pieces based on his own meticulous investigations and discoveries. © Martin Bailey
At first sight it looks absolutely nothing like a Van Gogh: a portrait of a fisherman mending his net and smoking a pipe by the seashore. It lacks the strong colouration, thick impasto paint, energetic brushwork and style of the work of the Dutch artist in Provence. Yet the New York-based LMI Group claims that this portrait, titledElimar,isby no other than Van Gogh. Press reports have valued it at over $15m.
But could this unsigned picture, lacking any links to Van Gogh, really be by the master?LMI has an answer: they argue it is the Dutchman’s version of a work by another artist—a portrait of the fisherman Niels Gaihede by the Danish painter Michael Ancher (1849-1927).
Michael Ancher’sPortrait of Niels Gaihede(1870s-80) andElimarby another artist
LMI titles their paintingElimar, after the word inscribed on its lower-right corner. They say that this refers to the name of a young seafarer in an 1848 novel by Hans Christian Andersen,The Two Baronesses. This inscription is missing on Ancher’s original painting and is only on the LMI version.
Elimarfirst surfaced in 2016 “at a garage sale held at a residence in Minnetonka, Minnesota”. LMI say the price was “very nominal”, with press reports suggesting that it was less than $50. The picture was later bought by LMI in 2019 for an undisclosed sum.
Following five years of research, LMI argues thatElimarwas painted in 1889, while Van Gogh was staying at the asylum outside Saint-Rémy-de-Provence. That autumn Van Gogh began a series of painted versions of black-and-white prints by other artists he admired. LMI claims that it was then that he made this work—his own interpretation of Ancher’s.
Scientific staff investigatingElimar
Elimarhas recently been subjected to a series of comprehensive tests by LMI. These confirmed that the painting’s pigments were in use in the late 19th century, although with one possible exception: the pigment geranium lake, used to create violet in the sky, was initially thought to have only been patented in France in 1905. However, further research suggested a likely patent in 1883, six years before the mooted date ofElimar.
The investigations also revealed a hair embedded in the paint in the bottom-left corner. This was removed and tested for DNA, although the result proved “inconclusive” because of degradation of the sample. However, high-resolution images did suggest that the male hair was “translucent to red to light reddish brown”—Van Gogh is believed to have had reddish hair.
Enlarged image of a human hair discovered embedded in the paint ofElimar
LMI has gone to enormous efforts to argue their case, publishing a 458-page document which deals with the context ofElimarwithin Van Gogh’s life and work. Much of the report provides an extensive account of technical analyses, including pigments, a thread count of the canvas, the use of a palette knife, egg-white finishing, etc. A comparison of the capital letters “ELIMAR” on the LMI picture is said to reveal a “94 per cent similarity” with some of those on accepted Van Gogh paintings.
Although the American writer William Havlicek, author ofVan Gogh’s Untold Journey(2010), accepts the painting’s authenticity and has written a preface to the lengthy LMI report, the document cites no internationally recognised and extensively published Van Gogh specialists who regard it as authentic. Most significantly, the Van Gogh Museum in Amsterdam, the ultimate authority, does not accept it.
Normally the Van Gogh Museum does not comment on new “discoveries”, which emerge constantly (I hear of one candidate almost every week). Previously unknown paintings which are eventually accepted as genuine by the museum are extremely rare. They probably now turn up once every ten to twenty years.
However, the Van Gogh Museum did take the unusual step of speaking out onElimar. On 31 January a spokesperson said: “We have considered the new information mentioned in the LMI'sElimarreport. Based on our previous opinion on the painting in 2019, we maintain our view that this is not an authentic painting by Vincent van Gogh.”
In 2019 the museum responded to an authentication request from an earlier owner ofElimar, stating: “We have carefully examined the material you supplied to us and are of the opinion, based on stylistic features, that your work cannot be attributed to Vincent van Gogh.”
The museum itself is not commenting further on any details—but let’s look into the evidence. The painting only emerged in 2016 and there is no earlier provenance to link it to Van Gogh, or to explain how it travelled from the asylum at Saint-Rémy-de-Provence to a garage sale in Minnesota.
Concerning theElimarname, there is no specific evidence that Van Gogh ever read Andersen’s novel (although he enjoyed his writing), and in 1889 the book was not available in either Dutch or French. Van Gogh did also read English and German, and the book had already been translated into these languages, but he would not easily have seen a copy in Provence.
More significantly, it seems very unlikely that Van Gogh knew of the original Ancher painting on whichElimaris based, despite LMI’s speculation. The fact that the colours ofElimarare similar to those of Ancher’sPortrait of Niels Gaihede, surely means that the artist behind LMI's work must have had access to the original picture.
Nothing is known about the provenance of the Ancher picture before it was first auctioned in 1975, so it must have been in an unidentified private collection during Van Gogh’s time. It is inconceivable that the Ancher would have been at the asylum where Van Gogh lived, and the chance of him having seen the Danish painting in a private collection in Paris two years earlier and then remembering its composition and colouring seems very remote.
In 1889, at the asylum, Van Gogh was painting his own coloured interpretations of black-and-white prints by other artists, not copies of paintings by them. No prints of the Ancher are known, and even if Van Gogh had had one, it is extremely unlikely that by chance he would have reproduced the Danish artist’s colours from a black-and-white image.
But the latest challenge faced by LMI is the argument that the word “Elimar” does not represent the character from the Andersen novel, but is actually the signature of another Danish artist: Henning Elimar (1928-89). He is a minor figure and two of hislandscapeswere last week on sale for just over $150 each (with all the publicity overElimarthey very quickly sold).
A comparison between the handwriting onElimarand Henning Elimar’sVillage in Winter, which was auctioned by Dannenberg in Berlin last September, is telling. The word “ELIMAR” has been written in capital letters in a similar style, and in the same position, on the two paintings. However, LMI disputes the suggestion that they are written by the same hand, pointing out that Henning Elimar’s capital letters “have a distinct rightward tilt”.
Henning Elimar’sVillage in Winter(mid-20th century), his signature (upper right) onVillage in Winter, and the signature on LMI’sElimar(lower right)
Although the LMI report includes a 35-page section analysing the handwriting of “Elimar” on their painting, this does not even consider the obvious possibility that it might represent the name of the artist. The lower-right corner of a painting is the most common place for an artist to sign and it would be curious to instead write the name of a sitter on their sleeve.
LMI sent us a detailed response, saying that Henning Elimar was “never considered as a potential author” of their painting, because of a lack of “any similarities in style, technique, subject matter, palette or epoch” with their own picture. Their statement adds that there is “no evidence of the work [Elimar] having been painted in the 20th century”, since it does not have certain modern pigments and binding media.
However, I would argue that the fact an artist used only materials available in the 1880s does not rule out the possibility that a work was painted in the mid-20th century.
LMI dismisses the Van Gogh Museum’s rejection on the grounds that it was not based on a physical examination of the painting, but simply on images and supporting written material. It also stresses, with reason, that attributions can change, as scholarship and science advances.
The company explains: “There have been at least four instances in which the Museum reversed its own prior opinion on the question of authentication of a Van Gogh work, and at least ten additional instances in which the Museum reversed the attribution of works previously included in catalogues of Van Gogh’s oeuvre [published in 1970 and 1996].”
I myself do not authenticate Van Gogh’s work, since I feel this is a task which should be undertaken by the Amsterdam museum, which is dedicated to the artist. But for me, the evidence linkingElimarto Van Gogh is unconvincing.
The future ofElimarremains unclear, although the emergence of the painting has certainly attracted global media attention. Within two days of the announcement, fridge magnets with the image were on sale on eBay for $9.
Martin Baileyis a leading Van Gogh specialist and special correspondent forThe Art Newspaper. Bailey has curated Van Gogh exhibitions at the Barbican Art Gallery, Compton Verney/National Gallery of Scotland and Tate Britain.
Martin Bailey’s recent Van Gogh books
Bailey has written a number of bestselling books on Van Gogh’s years in France:The Sunflowers Are Mine: The Story of Van Gogh's Masterpiece(Frances Lincoln 2013 (UKandUS),Studio of the South: Van Gogh in Provence(Frances Lincoln 2016 (UKandUS),Starry Night: Van Gogh at the Asylum(White Lion Publishing 2018,UKandUS) andVan Gogh’s Finale: Auvers and the Artist’s Rise to Fame(Frances Lincoln 2021,UKandUS).The Sunflowers are Mine(UKandUS) andVan Gogh’s Finale(UKandUS) are also now available in a more compact paperback format.Living with Vincent van Gogh: the Homes and Landscapes that shaped the Artist(White Lion Publishing 2019,UKandUS) provides an overview of the artist’s life.The Illustrated Provence Letters of Van Goghhas been reissued (Batsford 2021,UKandUS).My Friend Van Gogh/Emile Bernardprovides the first English translation of Bernard’s writings on Van Gogh (David Zwirner Books 2023,UKandUS).
To contact Martin Bailey, please emailvangogh@theartnewspaper.com. Please note that he does not undertake authentications.
Read more from Martin's Adventures with Van Gogh bloghere.
The Courtauld exhibition will be the first ever with works from Vincent’s full career, opening on 3 February
Vincent described his friend as having “a big, bearded face, very Socratic”
----------------------------------------