Title: YouTube at 20: How the Video Colossus Launched the Creator Economy and Turned From Hollywood Foe to Friend
Date: 2025-03-06T16:00:00+00:00
Content:
Photographs by Jessica Chou
It’s a muggy morning the day before the 2025 Super Bowl in New Orleans, andYouTubeCEONeal Mohanis stuck in parade traffic and not happy about it. It’s not so much the French Quarter gridlock or the humidity that’s bothering him, but that he’s late for a meeting with a YouTube creator. They’re supposed to make a video together, and it involves slime.
“I should have pulled the trigger half an hour ago,” Mohan says to an aide, and then orders everyone out of the car: They’re going to walk the 1.7 miles to the Ernest N. Morial Convention Center. Mohan will be damned if he’s not going to go the extra mile for the particular breed of content creator known as a “YouTuber.”Related StoriesVIP+Apple TV+ Viewership Is Surging. Is It the ‘Severance’ Halo Effect?Disney Sees Sell-Out for Oscars Ads -- And Not Just on TV
Over the past 20 years, Google-owned YouTube has become the world’s most-watched video platform, bar none. It’s the home base of countless self-made influencers, podcasters, commentators and entrepreneurs and over time has made it into the big leagues of TV through rights deals with the NFL, Disney, Warner Bros. Discovery and NBCUniversal.Popular on Variety
The platform that helped introduce the world to streaming with its launch two decades ago has had a twisty-turny journey in Hollywood on its way to establishing itself as a digital household utility. If you want to find anything on video, the search invariably starts on YouTube. This is a dramatic shift from the first few years of YouTube’s existence, when most of Hollywood viewed the Silicon Valley-born company as a copyright-infringing pariah.
Now, no major studio or network can afford not to post its trailers, clips, previews and promotional interviews on the platform. And those same studios and networks are starting to make significant money from YouTube, whether it’s in carriage fees for channels distributed via YouTube TV or by making select television shows and movies available for free viewing with advertisements.
“Today, YouTubeistelevision,” says Jeff Zucker, former head of NBCUniversal and CNN. “It’s so many businesses wrapped into one — short-form video, long-form video, live, cable TV. I don’t think any media company today can ignore YouTube. It’s too big and too powerful.”
Sean Evans on 10 Years of ‘Hot Ones’ on YouTube: ‘The Best Dumb Idea Ever’
YouTube’s Super Creators: How MrBeast, Rhett & Link, Michelle Khare, Adam W and More Use the Platform to Power Their Businesses
Why YouTube Exited the Original Content Business: ‘We Weren’t Good at Picking Content’
YouTube’s expansion into cable-like TV service with YouTube TV is another reason Mohan has made the trek to New Orleans. He’s here to schmooze top brass from one of his biggest media partners: the NFL. Starting with the 2023-24 season, YouTube became the exclusive U.S. retailer for the Sunday Ticket out-of-home package, replacing DirecTV — and beating out other highly interested parties, including Apple, for the rights.
At the same time, Mohan is using the hoopla around the Super Bowl to promote the other major part of YouTube’s business — its DIY creators, who have turned video dispatches from their basements into businesses worth seven and eight figures.
“It truly is your own world on YouTube. You run the business, and there’s no network notes or anything like that,” saysSean Evans, host of the popular “Hot Ones” series that challenges celebrity guests to nibble on increasingly spicy chicken wings. It sounds like a jokey idea, butthe show that launched in 2015 is up to 360-odd episodes and counting.
Top YouTubers have traveled to the Super Bowl this year to take part in the inaugural NFL-YouTube Creator Flag Football Game, which will be livestreamed on the platform the night before the Philadelphia Eagles play the Kansas City Chiefs at the Superdome. Later in the day, Mohan will loudly cheer from the sidelines at the elaborate exhibition match featuring a mix of influencers, musicians and pro athletes. But for now, he’s on a mission to keep his date with creator Carter Kench for that promised video collab, something that has been the CEO’s calling card. Just before noon, Mohan finds Kench at the convention center. “It’s been a long walk, but it’s great to be here,” says Mohan. His wife and three children have come along too. His kids are big fans of YouTube creators, “like all kids,” he says.
Kench, an L.A-based creator with more than 5.4 million subscribers, has set up the materials for their collab in a booth: They’re going to make slime and color it for the Super Bowl teams — red and green. Kench starts to assure the CEO that making slime is pretty simple, but Mohan says, “I have a slime expert right here,” gesturing to the younger of his two daughters. Over the next hour, he delights his girls with his goopy hands.
Afterward, Mohan marvels at the talents of the creators who make the content that fuels his multibillion-dollar business — the minds behind the 3 million-plus channels who earn a cut of YouTube ad revenue. “They’re amazing, creative people,” he says. “What’s always impressive to me is how they sweat every single detail. It’s inspiring.”
As YouTube celebrates its 20th anniversary this year, Mohan, 51, is about to mark 10 years with the platform. The Google veteran signed on in November 2015 as chief product officer before becoming CEO in 2023.
The executive was born in Lafayette, Indiana, and grew up near Ann Arbor, Michigan, where his parents were both graduate students. When he was a teenager, his family moved back to their hometown of Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh, India, where he attended high school at St. Francis College. Former classmates described him as “brilliant but shy,” according to a Times of India article.
“I do think I am a reserved fellow, as my wife reminds me,” Mohan says. “I’ll let others decide on the brilliance piece.”
After returning to the States, Mohan attended Stanford University, where he graduated in 1996 with a degree in electrical engineering and later earned an MBA. He was perfectly positioned to be part of the first dot-com boom. Mohan jumped into the budding online-advertising industry back when most Americans had slow dial-up connections and most websites moved at a glacial pace. Mohan eventually rose to senior VP of strategy and product development at digital ad firm DoubleClick. Google liked the company’s technology and acquired it in 2008. In the process of completing the DoubleClick acquisition, Mohan met Susan Wojcicki, an influential player at Google. She was the company’s 16th employee after its founding in 1998.
By the time Mohan met her a decade later, Wojcicki was head of Google’s massive advertising business. The two went on to spend 15 years working together —Wojcicki was tapped to run YouTube in 2014, and Mohan joined her as chief product officer a year later.
“We hit it off from our very first conversation in some legal office boardroom in New York City,” Mohan recalls. The two ad-tech wonks, he says, loved “geeking out on building interesting products for our customers.” He and Wojcicki became close friends.
Wojcicki’s death in August 2024, at age 56, marked the end of an era for Google and YouTube. Mohan was devastated. “I am forever grateful for her friendship and guidance,” he said at the time. “I will miss her tremendously.” Not only was Wojcicki an early employee, but it was her garage in Palo Alto, California, that founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin rented as Google’s first headquarters. Mohan took the reins of YouTube from Wojcicki, which provided a level of continuity that was important for both enterprises.
Wojcicki was a model of a highly effective tech leader focused on building great products in a large organization, Mohan says. And part of the reason for that, he adds, is that “she was also really oriented around people.”
When YouTube was incorporated in February 2005 by three former PayPal employees — Chad Hurley, Steve Chen and Jawed Karim — the start-up was housed in Hurley’s garage in Menlo Park, California. The very first video was uploaded April 23, 2005, by Karim; titled “Me at the Zoo,” it was a 19-second clip he shot in front of the elephant exhibit at the San Diego Zoo.
The founders actually launched the platform as a site for video dating. But after one week, not a single person had uploaded any videos. So they pivoted to promoting YouTube as a general-purpose video-sharing platform.
It was a long-shot idea, as it wasn’t clear at the time whether the internet could support video delivery at scale, says Roelof Botha, managing partner of Sequoia Capital, the Menlo Park-based venture capital firm that has backed some of Silicon Valley’s most world-beating start-ups. Botha led Sequoia’s total investment of $8.5 million in YouTube.
“The three entrepreneurs were scrappy and smart,” he says, explaining why he made the bet on the fledgling service. “The site was usable in a way that others were not.”
Two decades later, the platform is a massive fire hose that sprays out every kind of content imaginable, watched by an estimated 2.44 billion monthly users in 2024, according to researcher eMarketer. There are vlogs, how-to videos, comedy sketches, music videos, news segments, talk shows, product reviews, video-game playthroughs, life hacks, animated shows, podcasts, TV clips, full movies and movie trailers, stunts, pranks and challenges. More than 500 hours of video are uploaded to YouTube every minute. It’s the No. 2 most-visited site in the world, behind only Google.com, and the second-biggest search engine after Google.
Worldwide, users watch on average more than 1 billion hours of YouTube content on TVs every day, according to the company. In the U.S., TVs recently surpassed phones and tablets as YouTube’s No. 1 viewing device. According to Nielsen, for two years running, Americans have spent more time watching YouTube on their TV sets than any other streamer, including Netflix, Disney+ and Amazon Prime Video.
In 2024, YouTube generated global ad revenue of $36.15 billion, up an impressive 15%. For the 12 months that ended September 2024, YouTube’s subscription revenue topped $15 billion. That was generated by YouTube TV, the biggest internet-delivered live TV service in the U.S. with 8 million-plus customers; YouTube Premium, which provides ad-free videos and other perks; and YouTube Music Premium, a music-only streaming service. This week it announced that it now hasmore than 125 million subscribers for YouTube Music and Premium services, up from 100 million a year ago.
As a stand-alone entity, apart from Google, YouTube would be worth more than $400 billion, Wall Street analyst firm MoffettNathanson has estimated — more than Disney, Comcast, Warner Bros. Discovery and Paramount Global combined.
When he was running NBC in the mid-2000s, Zucker saw so much conflict ahead with the upstart video-sharing platform that it drove him to partner with Rupert Murdoch’s Fox to launch a streaming competitor, Hulu, that was known internally as “the YouTube killer” when it was gestating at NBC and Fox.
“The idea behind Hulu was we couldn’t let YouTube take advantage of our IP at NBC and leave us in the dust with no ability to monetize it,” Zucker says.
YouTube now sustainsthousands of businesses that have grown into small media companies, primarily by distributing their shows on the platform. Mohan calls them “the start-ups of Hollywood.” Some of the biggest names are MrBeast; Rhett & Link of “Good Mythical Morning”; Mark Rober; and “Hot Ones” producer First We Feast.
Evans and Chris Schonberger launched “Hot Ones” in 2015 as, says Evans, a “skunkworks, freak-show project” when they worked at digital media company Complex. In 2021, BuzzFeed bought Complex, and then in early 2024 sold most of the company — but held on to First We Feast. Then in December 2024, Evans, Schonberger and a group of investors (including Rhett & Link’s Mythical)bought First We Feast from BuzzFeed for $82.5 million. Today, “Hot Ones” has millions of fans and has busted into the cultural zeitgeist — including getting spoofed on “Saturday Night Live.”
“There’s no one that I look around at in entertainment and think to myself, ‘Oh, I’d rather have that,’” Evans says. “I just like being king of my castle over here.”
RELATED:Sean Evans on 10 Years of ‘Hot Ones’ on YouTube: ‘The Best Dumb Idea Ever’
Meanwhile, traditional media companies have completely shifted their stance toward YouTube. Initially, many it saw it as a huge piracy threat — epitomized by the 2007 lawsuit filed by Viacom accusing YouTube of “brazen” copyright infringement and demanding more than $1 billion in damages. (The parties reached a settlement in 2014; Google did not pay out any money.)
Now, media firms “view YouTube as a really important part of their future growth strategies, and that is a night-and-day difference from where we were from those early Viacom days,” Mohan says.
NFL commissioner Roger Goodell says the Sunday Ticket pact with YouTube didn’t come down to just the dollar amount YouTube was willing to pay. The league wanted a partner with global reach and a younger demographic — both of which YouTube delivers. “I think Neal understood how these mediums were going to collide and how the NFL content could actually be helpful in developing their strategy overall,” says Goodell. “We have great confidence in him.”
In YouTube’s first year, its primary traffic driver was viral videos. Two stood out: In November 2005, a Nike ad featuring Brazilian soccer star Ronaldinho improbably hitting a goal’s crossbar with a ball four times in a row became the first YouTube video to reach 1 million views. The following month, fans of “Saturday Night Live” and Andy Samberg uploaded copies of the Lonely Island’s mock-rap short “Lazy Sunday.” It racked up 5 million views before NBC’s lawyers demanded the three-minute clip be pulled down.
YouTube’s founders and Botha recognized that defending the site against claims of copyright infringement was one of its two major risks, along with the technical challenges of scaling performance. They relied on the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA), which limits the liability of online platforms for user-shared material that includes copyrighted content.
But that didn’t satisfy some media companies. YouTube’s first general counsel, Zahavah Levine, recalled on a recent podcast hosted by Botha that prior to the Google acquisition, Universal Music Group “fully unleashed an orchestrated campaign of fear tactics on us” — and she had one UMG exec “literally scream at me over the phone: ‘YouTube was built on the backs of our artists and owes us hundreds of millions of dollars!’” YouTube eventually inked a licensing deal with UMG, which Google had made a precondition of the acquisition’s closing.
To address media companies’ wrath over the misappropriation of their content, YouTube developed Content ID: a system that scans uploads against a database of copyrighted audio and video content. If Content ID finds a match, a copyright owner can block the video or opt to monetize the video with ads.
But Content ID has its critics. The system favors copyright holders, giving them the ability to remove videos that should be covered under fair-use doctrine, argues Katharine Trendacosta, director of policy and advocacy at the Electronic Frontier Foundation. YouTube’s Content ID was borne out of “wanting big media companies to like them and leave them alone,” she says. “It’s more profitable for them to be partners with these big companies rather than with smaller individual creators.”
Mohan counters that Content ID is the fundamental technology that allows YouTube to be an open platform — to protect the rights of partners and make it economically viable for all creators. From 2021-2023, YouTube paid out some $70 billion to creators, artists, and music and media companies. And Mohan says that wouldn’t be possible without Content ID.
“What Content ID allows us to do is not just talk the talk [about copyright protection] but walk the walk,” says Mohan.
By the end of 2005, YouTube’s corporate headquarters had moved from Hurley’s garage to offices above Amici’s pizzeria in San Mateo, California. The company now accounted for about one-fourth of all internet bandwidth usage in the U.S., and this early surge of growth caught the eye of Google, as well as Yahoo and Rupert Murdoch’s News Corp.
Botha recalls that Google “came in with confidence, speed and precision” on an offer for YouTube. Google ultimately closed its acquisition for $1.65 billion in stock in November 2006. (The YouTube founders landed on the price tag because they thought it would be cool to sell the company for 10% more than eBay paid for PayPal in 2002.)
Zucker, who was CEO of NBC Entertainment at the time, certainly remembers “Lazy Sunday” blowing up on YouTube. “We saw it as an opportunity — and a threat,” he says. “YouTube showed us how powerful viral video could be.” He still thinks “Lazy Sunday” was a primary reason Google bought YouTube.
The dawn of the creator economy arguably was in 2007. That’s when the platform introduced its YouTube Partner Program, which shares ad revenue with creators whose channels hit minimum subscriber and viewing thresholds. (The current standard YouTube split is 55% for the channel owner, 45% for the house.) The program, known as YPP, gave rise to a brand-new job: YouTuber. For those with showbiz aspirations, it’s the new version of packing up the car and driving to Hollywood or New York. Never mind that only about 4% of an estimated 50 million creators worldwide earn more than $100,000 per year, according to Goldman Sachs research.
YouTube’s biggest star today is Jimmy Donaldson, the 26-year-old known as MrBeast. He runs the platform’s most-subscribed channel, with more than 370 million followers, garnering a global fan base for his outlandish stunts, wacky big-money giveaways and philanthropic endeavors. Donaldson earned an estimated $85 million for the 12 months ended June 2024, according to Forbes.
Donaldson says the moment he realized YouTube could become a full-time job was with his “I Counted to 100,000!” video, uploaded in January 2017 — in which he literally counted from one to 100,000. He says it took him 40 hours; the video, sped up in parts, runs nearly 24 hours. That video was “the catalyst for everything that followed,” Donaldson says. “It was a big idea, but I was all in.”
But Donaldson’s most audacious project to date wasn’t on YouTube: The reality competition show “Beast Games” was co-produced with Amazon Prime Video. The “Squid Game”-style program, which awarded more than $20 million in prize money to contestants, cost more than $100 million to produce.
“It was an opportunity to expand the MrBeast brand to new audiences and take on a bigger project,” Donaldson says. But, he adds, “YouTube will always be my No. 1 focus, as it powers everything I do. I don’t want to be a creator that loses focus and my channel dies as a result.”
Mohan says he’s “really proud when YouTube is the jumping off point for things that creators can do outside of YouTube” like Donaldson’s “Beast Games.” “I’m rooting for Jimmy in all of his endeavors because he knows, and I know, that sort of the basis of all of that is the investment and hard work that he puts into YouTube,” the CEO says.
Rhett & Link — best friends Link Neal and Rhett McLaughlin, who first started posting comedy videos on YouTube back in 2006 — head up another company born and raised on the platform. Mythical now has more than 100 employees at their studios in L.A., some 34 million subscribers across channels and more than 14 billion lifetime views on YouTube. Recent guests on “Good Mythical Morning” have includedLuke Bryan,Jason and Kylie Kelce, andTed Danson.
“I think what what we are creating is a next-generation best-of-both-worlds, where you have high-quality entertainment but also deep [audience] connection which goes beyond engagement,” says Neal. Both Rhett and Link believe that YouTube-native shows like “GMM” deserve to be part of the conversation for industry awards like the Emmys. The net effect of putting a YouTube show on par with traditional TV, says McLaughlin, “is that brands are like, ‘OK, well, all right, there’s an Emmy attached to this thing. Maybe maybe we should present a season of this, or maybe we should get more involved than we than we have.'”
RELATED:YouTube’s Super Creators: How MrBeast, Rhett & Link, Michelle Khare, Adam W and More Use the Platform to Power Their Businesses
Over time, media companies have found YouTube fertile ground for promoting content and earning revenue. Yet those companies are also competing with YouTube for consumers’ time and ad dollars. “YouTube is the ultimate frenemy,” says Brian Fuhrer, Nielsen’s senior VP of product strategy.
Netflix brass, when pressed on the question of competing with YouTube, insist the services are complementary. “We compete directly with YouTube for people’s time, for the time they spend on that TV screen. But we have very different strengths,” co-CEO Ted Sarandos told analysts on its Q3 2024 earnings interview.
Dana Walden, co-chairman of Disney Entertainment, says any share of viewing that YouTube might take from the Mouse House’s TV and streaming properties is hugely outweighed by the upside of working with the platform. The partnership spans promotional content for Disney+ and Hulu, plus movies and theme parks, as well as advertising and pay-TV distribution.
“YouTube plays a key role in deepening fandom across each segment of our company, and not just streaming,” Walden says. It’s a deeply symbiotic relationship, she says, “one where both Disney and YouTube thrive on the scale, awareness and passion of our audiences.”
One of Disney’s goals with YouTube, Walden says, is “enabling creators to grow that love for our IP.”
René Rechtman, an alum of Maker Studios and Disney, founded children’s entertainment outfit Moonbug Entertainment in 2018 after he realized that none of the top 100 YouTube channels aimed at kids was owned by traditional media companies. “I saw how uninterested kids were in cable TV, and how engaged they were with YouTube creators,” he says.
Moonbug acquired several companies producing content for YouTube: CoComelon, Blippi and Little Baby Bum. One of CoComelon’s top all-time YouTube videos is “Wheels on the Bus” — which has a mind-bending 7.2 billion views (and counting). In 2021, two of Rechtman’s former Disney colleagues, Tom Staggs and Kevin Mayer, came calling with an offer he couldn’t refuse: $3 billion for Moonbug to become part of their new media roll-up company, Candle Media.
“I think this was a greenfield for us because companies like Disney had an existential crisis with Netflix,” Rechtman says. “They were all focused on, How do we compete in this new direct-to-consumer world? They saw YouTube as a marketing platform, which was a big mistake.” YouTube is the biggest free streaming platform in the world, Rechtman says: “How great is that opportunity?”
Among traditional media companies, WWE has one of the biggest footprints on YouTube. Its main channel, launched in May 2007, has served more than 91 billion video views to date and has over 107 million subscribers. That makes it one of the top 10 most-subscribed channels on YouTube.
WWE president Nick Khan says that in the earliest days of YouTube, the only media outlets that covered WWE were those that had licensing agreements with the wrestling entertainment company. “So we were forced to push our content to other platforms to get our message out,” he says.
“We believe we deliver what our fans wanted,” Khan says by way of explaining WWE’s tremendous growth on YouTube with clips, highlights, classic matches and some exclusive material. “We like to be first movers in any space.” And the company has done that without cannibalizing viewing on tentpole properties on TV and other streaming platforms, he says.
Asked whether WWE sees YouTube as a potential distributor for its premium live events in the future, Khan notes that the company’s deal with NBCU’s Peacock runs through March 2026. He says NBCU has been a “tremendous partner,” noting it will have the have the first to renew the rights for Peacock. If not, “we will talk to everyone including YouTube, which has done phenomenally well with Sunday Ticket and YouTube TV,” says Khan.
Will McIntosh, president of NBCU’s Fandango and NBC Sports Next, sees YouTube largely as a partner and not so much as a competitor. Fandango’s content promoting movies coming to theaters and home entertainment performs really well on YouTube. “It’s inarguable — it’s the most important platform from that perspective,” McIntosh says. “Ultimately, we know that manifests itself in ticket sales.”
YouTube also is a partner for Fandango’s Movieclips business, which is currently one of the biggest channels on YouTube with more than 63 million subscribers. It’s a three-way win: Fandango, studios and YouTube each earn revenue from ads served against licensed clips of TV and movie scenes. One of the most-viewed videos on Movieclips’ channel is the “Shake It Off” scene from 2016 animated hit “Sing” (525 million views).
McIntosh says his team works with all the online platforms, including Facebook, Instagram and TikTok. “None of those partners has risen to the scale of YouTube, with its audience and what we can draw into our platforms,” he says.
Ynon Kreiz, CEO of Mattel, previously ran Maker Studios, the multichannel network company that aggregated thousands of YouTube creators into different vertical segments. Disney bought Maker in 2014. Kreiz observes that YouTube’s evolution over the years — to use technology to better target content and ads to individual viewers and drive engagement — is similar to Mattel’s shift from being a toy manufacturer to a steward of franchises like Barbie and Hot Wheels that engages with fans on an emotional level.
On YouTube, “you can have a two-way conversation with fans, who create their own content around your brands,” he says. “This is not just a place where you put advertising.” Mattel, he says, is spending more creating content specifically for YouTube, where “there’s a commercial model with financial returns.”
Zucker, the one-time YouTube adversary, today is the CEO of media-investment firm RedBird IMI, whose holdings include British production house All3Media, Front Office Sports and studio Media Res. He’s a convert to the notion that YouTube is integral to any media business today. “We know the power of that platform, we know what it can do — and we’re going to continue to try to harness that,” he says.
RELATED:Why YouTube Exited the Original Content Business: ‘We Weren’t Good at Picking Content’
Even as YouTube ramps up subscription revenue, advertising remains its lifeblood. The video platform continues to post double-digit growth off a large revenue base. It’s taking share from traditional TV, where ad sales have slowed or declined: GroupM projects just 1.9% growth worldwide in 2025 for linear television advertising.
Marketers have been attracted to YouTube’s ability to reach viewers from the get-go. YouTube may have been an antagonist to traditional media players — but that wasn’t the case with advertisers. “From the earliest days, advertisers were trying to work with YouTube,” says Brian Wieser, founder and CEO of Madison & Wall, an advisory and data services firm for advertising and tech industries. “If you go back to the early and mid-2000s, advertisers appreciated how important online video advertising was and would become.”
According to Sequoia’s Botha, the ad business made it profitable before the Google acquisition. “The YouTube founders made it very cost effective to deliver video. So you only needed a low monetization rate to be successful,” he says.
YouTube gained the attention of TV advertisers with the introduction in 2014 of Google Preferred. Later rebranded YouTube Select, the program lets marketers target the top 5% of popular channels in categories like entertainment and pop culture, food and music. “That’s when they started to dip their toe into the broader TV spending pool,” says Drew Corry, SVP and group director of strategic investment at ad-buying giant IPG Mediabrands. “If you’re trying to reach consumers by video, you’re going to have some level of investment in YouTube.”
YouTube also has delivered an advertising experience that, from a viewer’s perspective, is superior to TV, says Mattel’s Kreiz. “It’s more user-friendly than traditional linear television, where you have to sit through literally several minutes of advertising per hour,” says Kreiz. He notes that YouTube pioneered skippable ads — a radical concept when it was first introduced in 2010. Mohan, who was involved in developing YouTube’s TrueView skippable ad format, says he’s proud of the innovation: “I do think it’s changed the industry in terms of how advertiser value is conveyed, but in a way that actually also works for all of us as users and consumers.”
Today, YouTube is the biggest streamer on TVs — and if viewing trends continue on their current trajectory, says Nielsen’s Fuhrer, “there’s a lot more runway there.”
In 2016, Nielsen adopted a new methodology for measuring viewing on TV that encompassed streaming. And it found that while Netflix represented half of streaming, YouTube was in second place. “We thought, ‘This can’t be right. YouTube can’t be this big on TV,’” Fuhrer recalls.
Then came a tipping point: In the summer of 2022, YouTube passed Netflix on TV viewing in the U.S. for the first time, per Nielsen. And it’s held the lead for the past two years. In January 2025, YouTube had 10.8% share on TVs, with Netflix following at 8.6%. YouTube’s TV audience for a long time has been the most diverse from an age perspective and with its broad range of content has “an amazing ability to engage every ethnicity,” says Fuhrer.
Nielsen Total TV and Streaming Snapshot (Viewing Share on TVs, January 2025)
When YouTube began to focus on boosting its share of living-room viewing about a decade ago, it saw there were “pockets of content of watch time that we weren’t serving,” says Christian Oestlien, director of product management at YouTube. Translation: traditional linear TV, and sports in particular. Oestlien led the team that launched YouTube TV in early 2017, combining the dizzyingly vast array of content on core YouTube with the likes of ABC, CBS, Fox, NBC and more, so “you’re getting this really complete, one-stop experience,” he says.
Will the Super Bowl one day be streaming on YouTube? “We would love that. Someday,” says Mary Ellen Coe, YouTube’s chief business officer. “A few contracts need to expire, though.”
YouTube has enjoyed a steady growth trajectory. But YouTube and Google have become so big and powerful that U.S. regulators are trying to rein them in. In January 2023, the Justice Department filed an antitrust lawsuit accusing Google of illegally monopolizing the ad-tech market. According to the suit, big advertisers and agencies that want to buy inventory on “the market-leading YouTube website” generally are forced to use Google’s ad tools, reinforcing the company’s “monopolistic grip.” Google has responded that the DOJ is attempting “to pick winners and losers in the highly competitive advertising technology sector.”
How the DOJ’s ad-tech case will play out under the Trump administration is uncertain. For now, Sean Downey, president of Google’s advertising business for the Americas and global partners, tells advertisers that it’s business as usual. “We tell them we’re going to follow that legal process, and whatever remedies come out, we will adhere to,” he says. “In the meantime, we can drive tremendous value for you on the platform.”
In 2017, YouTube faced another crisis in its advertising business after revelations that the platform ran ads in videos with hate speech. It also came to light that YouTube ads appeared with videos that attracted child predators. That prompted major advertisers including Walmart, PepsiCo, AT&T and Chase to freeze spending on YouTube. In response, YouTube moved to tighten controls over how it places ads to ensure they’re adjacent to “brand-safe” content, and it set new restrictions on creator eligibility for revenue sharing.
But that led some YouTubers to complain they were being unfairly deprived of ad-revenue income. Some dubbed it an “adpocalypse” that cut into their earnings.
“That was a crucible moment for YouTube,” Mohan says. “It was an existential threat to our business. It eroded the trust of advertisers. And our creators were really worried.” Mohan was in charge of implementing the advertiser-friendly policies at the time. “We did it slowly but surely. But it takes a lot to build that trust back up.”
To Mohan, YouTube has an opportunity to grow its already massive viewing numbers, given that the platform still only represents roughly 10% of total time spent watching TV in the U.S. “Increasingly people — especially young people — when they turn on their television screens, they’re turning on YouTube.”
A big focus for YouTube in 2025 and beyond is artificial intelligence. The company has made significant investments over the years in AI-based technology for video recommendations and Content ID, its copyright-detection system. Last year it rolled out AI-enabled features for YouTube Shorts, including Dream Screen, which generates images and video backgrounds. Mohan predicts AI will turbocharge YouTube’s creator economy, expanding the creative possibilities.
But it’s a fraught topic, given Hollywood’s fears about AI encroaching on its intellectual property. YouTube has pledged that it will build “responsible AI.” In December, the company announced a partnership with CAA to let actors and other talent identify and take down AI-generated fakes of themselves uploaded to the video platform.
“I believe that AI is going to enhance human creativity, not replace it, and that is both the opportunity as well as the challenge in the next few years,” Mohan says.
Back at the New Orleans convention center, Mohan reiterates that he sees his job as going the extra mile to build the best possible stage for creators of all stripes — whether that’s Sean Evans, MrBeast, Disney or the NFL — to promote and monetize their productions. “And then,” he says, “we get out of the way.”
----------------------------------------
Title: Billie Eilish Keeps Up Her Winning Streak With the Surprising and Intimate ‘Hit Me Hard and Soft’: Album Review
Date: 2024-05-17T01:13:16+00:00
Content:
Senior Music Writer and Chief Music Critic
What a great season for music this is, if you’re someone who has an old-fashioned thing for albums that really feel like albums. And it’s not because of any wave of old-timers ganging up with each other to show off their concept-record chops. It’s a trifecta of megastar divas who really want you to hear their truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the full album-length truth (although they surely won’t turn down your random Spotify spins). First we had Beyoncé’s “Cowboy Carter,” then Taylor Swift’s “The Tortured Poets Department” and nowBillie Eilish’s “Hit Me Hard and Soft” as collections you want to immerse yourself in, not because the artists in question imperiously demand it — although they kinda do — but because these are women who know how to world-build. Experiencing their latest wares just a city or a continent at a time doesn’t seem enough.Related StoriesVIP+It’s Official: The DVD Business Died Last Year'Scamanda' Premiere Jumps 289% to 5.7 Million Viewers After Three Weeks, ABC News Studios' Most-Streamed Series Launch Ever (EXCLUSIVE)
With that said, though, Eilish’s album almost couldn’t have been designed more to feel like theoppositeof Beyoncé’s or Swift’s opuses. Length is the thing that’s already been remarked upon, pre-release: At about 45 minutes in length, “Hit Me Hard and Soft” is a good half-hour shorter than “Cowboy Carter,” and comes in an hour and 15 under “TTPD: The Anthology.” (That’s neither good nor bad; consider us agnostic on the album-length debate.) What’s more striking is how Eilish isn’t going for grand statements, either culturally or personally, the way these other artists are. There’s no sense that she or brother/co-writer/producerFinneaswere going after anything remotely akin to world domination here, either — unless there’s such a thing as a subtle blockbuster… and maybe there is? It’s a series of sketches marked by their beauty, quietness (most of the time) and sonic exploration — 10 songs that couldn’t sound more different, but that it’s also hard to imagine not wanting to experience as a whole.Popular on Variety
Did we say 10 songs? Well, technically that’s true, but Eilish is also exercising her knack for turning a song around on a dime, mid-stream, as previously heard in the whisper-to-a-scream title track of “Happier Than Ever.” So it’s a 10-track record that happens to contain 13 excellent songs. The back half of the album is full of truly bifurcated numbers — the most whiplash-y example being “L’Amour De Ma Vie,” which spends its first three and a half minutes being a Laufey song, then opts out of its quaint wryness and spends the final two turning into a full-on Charli XCX hyper-pop track. That’s followed by “Bittersuite,” which employs the pun in the title for a reason: it starts with an insistent electronic pulse, turns into something sleepier and cooler after a minute and a half, and finally wraps up with a minute or so of disquieting synth. The finale, “Blue,” starts off nice-and-easy but turns into something much more melancholy partway through, like she suddenly decided she needed to take the titledeadly seriouslyand opted to write an entirely different song two minutes in, ending the album on a seriously haunting note you didn’t quite see coming.
Are there any simple pleasures in “Hit Me Hard and Soft,” you may be wondering, after reading that list of left turns? There are — she doesn’t overindulge her suite tooth. There’s a wonderful track in a progressive R&B vein that might have a better chance of being a hit if she hadn’t titled it “Chihiro,” apparently named after the protagonist of Ghibli’s “Spirited Away.” Right after that comes the album’s purest pop, “Birds of a Feather,” which, from its chimey opening synth line to its rhapsody over true love (“Might not be forever / But if it’s forever / It’s even better”), gives us a rare vision of an Eilish so blissful, it’s as if depression never touched her mind. Well, maybe the lyrics’ repeated avowals that her lover should stay alive “till I rot away dead and buried / Till I’m in the casket you carry” offer a hint of that. But at the end, when she blurts out, “I love you, don’t act so surprised”… it’s still surprising, as the ray of pure sunlight filtering into one of her records.
Eros, actually, is something that hasn’t been a major player in Eilish’s albums to date… and perhaps that’s as it should have been for someone who was putting out masses of material at 16 and 17. But she makes up for any lost time with “Lunch,” destined to be the album’s most-talked about track, as an ode to the joys of delivering cunnilingus. (Eilish said in her revealing recent Rolling Stone interview that she hadn’t actually had any such same-sex experiences when she started writing the tune, but from its vividness, it may not have ended up being purely aspirational.) With a Finneas bass line that won’t quit (now is probably not the time to describe that or his closing guitar solo as “tasty”), “Lunch” is the album’s obvious and unabashed banger, and something that will be stirring up lots of fights as it comes up for request on family driving trips all summer long.
The list of songs that qualify as “happier than ever” pretty much ends with those three numbers. Eilish has met some bad guys in her time, and one or more of them get their share of time in the new album, suggesting that the lessons taught in the last album’s “My Future” didn’t all get taken to heart. The opening track, “Skinny,” is the closest connector here to a ballad like the masterful Oscar winner “What Was I Made For,” but it’s really reprising several themes left over from the previous album: body image, the trappings of fame, and how significant others might be either attracted or repelled by proximity to the spotlight. Possibly alluding to a partner whodidn’tenjoy being publicly connected to her, Eilish sings, “You said I was your secret / And you didn’t get to keep it /And the internet is hungry for the meanest kind of funny / And somebody’s gonna feed it.” Frankly, it’s kind of a relief that she doesn’t spend very much of the rest of the album grappling with fame, since she already did that so effectively the last time around … but it’d also seem odd if it didn’t come up at all.
“Wildflower” is the most conventional-sounding song on the record, with a light acoustic guitar start opening up into a full-band sound with live drums. (Andrew Marshall, the siblings’ touring drummer, puts in a surprising amount of time on this album, given how handy Finneas is with the beats.) If there is a skip on this particular collection, “Wildflower” might come closest. But even a song as traditional and “organic” as this one gets set up with a curious and interesting coda after a false ending — one in which Eilish turns out to be sadder about having taken up with a friend’s ex-lover than she made herself out to be in the blither tune that preceded it.
“The Diner” is a delightful and also kind of scary outlier here — a track from the point of view of a stalker, set prosaically to a tune that sounds almost right out of a French café. Coming after the previous album addressed it more succinctly as a verse in “NDA,” “The Diner” goes full-scale into the psyche of a disturbed personality, and you have to admire her cojones in going there, even if probably not everyone would advise her to write a song like this. “Just bring a veil / And come visit me in jail” — that is some serious black comedy. (So is the lyric sheet’s inclusion of a 310-area-code phone number that, if you call it, brings up a voice recording of Eilish saying she can’t hear you.)
But here’s to saving the best for last. There’s a near-straight flush of great songs in the album’s back half that may not get the attention of a “Lunch” but go even farther toward establishing again what a proficient and masterful team Eilish and Finneas are. “The Greatest” may be the most anguished, unadorned and successfully dramatic song here. It begins with some extremely soft plucking — you might mistake it for an Aaron Dessner production, for a minute — before the drums and wailing kick it up a notch a full three minutes in. “Man, am I the greatest,” Billie belts, giving herself a series of gold medals for all the ways she subjugated herself in a relationship, to no avail — “all the times I waited/ For you to want me naked / Made it all look painless… Just wanted passion from you / Just wanted what I gave you.” She was shameless in love, and is no less shameless in coming up with a song that builds to a big finish — it really does live up to its name.
But I was equally bowled over by the closing number, “Blue,” which takes the opposite approach and downshifts in mood and tempo on its way to a poignant and uncertain ending. It’s a wrap-up that marks the reprise of some lyrical ideas that have recurred throughout the album, like the use of the title word in the sense of someone who may be choking from lack of oxygen, not just down in the dumps. The phrase “birds of a feather” gets repeated, from the hopeful song of that title that appeared earlier in the album, but now in a disappointed fashion, alongside the “bird in a cage” line that first appeared in “Skinny.” The coda has her speaking through a masculine-sounding voice filter for a few lines, as if she’s impersonating someone the song might be about — a disconcerting effect. And when she sings “Don’t hate you, but we can’t change you,” it’s a deeply poignant moment, as the singer maybe speaks on the behalf of an entire family community in waving goodbye to someone worthy of empathy who ran out their chances. I don’t know that any record this year will have a spookier closer.
Parts of “Hit Me Hard and Soft” are completely transparent in their blatant themes and melodies, and parts are more mysterious and elusive… which all contributes to it feeling like a much fuller meal than the 10-song track list would indicate. Eilish’s first two full albums arrived as what felt like instant classics. After about a dozen first-day listens, I’m not certain if this album counts as that or not. But I do know I can’t wait to dive into it about 50 more times. Eilish and Finneas are as good a combo platter of songwriter/record-makers as anyone doing it today, and their willingness to change things up — between albums; within an album; within a song — has put them on a hell of an introductory roll. As the song says, it “might not be forever / But if it’s forever / It’s even better.”
----------------------------------------
Title: ‘Wicked’s’ Paul Tazewell Makes Oscars History as First Black Man to Win Best Costume Design
Date: 2025-03-03T00:57:59+00:00
Content:
“Wicked’s”Paul Tazewellhas madeOscarshistory by becoming the first Black man towin for best costume design.
Tazewell, a previous nominee for “West Side Story,” already has an Emmy award (“The Wiz Live”) and Tony award (“Hamilton”) under his belt. He triumphed over fellow costume designers: Arianne Phillips (“A Complete Unknown”), Linda Muir (“Nosferatu”), Lisy Christl (“Conclave”) and Janty Yates and David Crossman (“Gladiator II”).
Tazewell has swept the season scooping up the BAFTA, Critics Choice and Costume Designers Guild awards along the way. He was also named one of Variety’s 10 artisans to watch in costume design, and was honored with the Variety Artisan Award in costume design at the Santa Barbara Film Festival.Popular on VarietyRelated StoriesVIP+It’s Official: The DVD Business Died Last YearBlake Lively Says She and Others Have Received 'Sexist and Threatening' Messages Over Justin Baldoni Suit
He is the second Black person to win in that category overall – Ruth E. Carter made Oscar history when she won for her work on “Black Panther.” She won a few years later for the film’s sequel “Black Panther: Wakanda Forever.”
In his speech, Tazewell acknowledged his historic moment saying, “I’m the first black man to receive the costume design award…I’m so proud of this.” He went on to thank the U.K team for their “beautiful work.” He also thanked “Wicked’s” leading ladies. He said, “My Ozian muses, Cynthia and Ariana, I love you so much.”
For “Wicked,” he designed over a thousand costumes for the big-screen adaptation of the Broadway musical. His most iconic pieces were creating Glinda’s bubble dress and Elphaba’s black dress.
Using the springboard of the 1939 film, “The Wizard of Oz,” Tazewell began with the idea of why Elphaba played by Cynthia Erivo wears black. He felt it set her apart in this colorful world of Shiz, but Tazewell also explained it’s a reflection of her mourning for her mother, who died in childbirth. His challenge was in bringing richness to his choice since “much of the detail gets absorbed into the black.”
He used felted fabric, gauze and chiffon to make the Elphaba’s black dress. He found inspiration in the pleated underside of mushrooms. Said Tazewell, “It became about interpreting that into fabric and texture.”
As for finding the pink for Glinda’s bubble dress, Tazewell looked at the original 1939 film “The Wizard of Oz” and the dress worn by Billie Burke. While the costume designer knew it was important to nod to the original Glinda and capture the “iconic” creation, Tazewell went for a softer pink and a warmer shade that became its own new design. The silhouette of the dress had a structured, hand-beaded and embroidered bodice which opens up to a bell shape. Tazewell also wanted to keep it translucent. He says, “It gives us a lighter-than-air quality.”
See all theOscar winners here.
----------------------------------------
Title: License to Shill: Inside Amazon’s 007 Takeover
Date: 2025-03-07T14:00:00+00:00
Content:
It’s the Bond movies’ most shocking plot twist in decades. But will the tech giant’s surprise buyout of the franchise prove deadly? Or could it breathe new life into cinema’s most famous spy?
When it comes to cringey musical tributes, nobody does it better than the Oscars. And while that chorus line of tuxedoed 007s pirouetting around the stage during the Academy’sJames Bondextravaganza wasn’t quite as jaw-droppingly awkward as some previous song-and-dance fiascos — at least Rob Lowe didn’t turn up to tango with Snow White — there was one small but uncomfortable moment you might have missed.
That’d be when the camera panned into the audience to Bond producersBarbara BroccoliandMichael G. Wilson.
The whole reason the Academy decided to devote six full minutes of the ceremony to Bond music was that Broccoli and Wilson were the recipients of this year’s honorary Irving G. Thalberg Oscar, an accolade bestowed upon them in November at the Governors Awards to celebrate the half-siblings’ 30 years of unwavering stewardship over the spy franchise they inherited in 1995 from their father, legendary Bond producer Albert “Cubby” Broccoli. “Let me tell you, they don’t just produce Bond movies,” one-time Bond Girl Halle Berry gushed about Broccoli and Wilson in her introduction from the podium, “they were the heart and soul of this franchise for decades.”Related StoriesLifestyleK-Pop Star Seonghwa of ATEEZ Makes Runway Debut at Isabel Marant's Paris Fashion Week ShowTVGaumont TV President Isabelle Degeorges to Receive Series Mania 'Women in Series' Award
There was just one small problem: Days before the ceremony, Broccoli and Wilson announced they were selling Bond toAmazon.
It was a bombshell development that caught much of Hollywood — including, clearly, Oscar’s musical producers — by surprise. What could have compelled them to do it? After so many years of fiercely protecting their father’s business — EON Productions, the company that’s been in charge of 007 since the character first swaggered onto the screen in 1962 — why would they decide to unload it? And to Amazon, no less, the sprawling global syndicate run by the bald-headed, rocket-building billionaire Ernst Stavro Bezos? It makes even less sense than the plot ofNo Time to Die.
More pointedly, what does the sale mean for Bond’s future? Amazon, of course, had purchased MGM, Bond’s longtime home, in 2022 for $8.5 billion, mostly to get its hands on 007 IP and build it into a Marvel-style universe filled with bingeable TV spinoffs. The only things stopping them were Broccoli and Wilson, who had very different ideas for their father’s legacy, as well as a decades-long deal with MGM guaranteeing them creative dominion over all things Bond. But now that they’re out of the picture, Amazon can do whatever it wants. A TV show about Moneypenny? Why not. A prequel about Blofeld’s teenage years? Sure. More 007 game shows? Please no. But anything is possible. Amazon is now free to milk the franchise dry.
“Don’t let anybody else screw it up,” Cubby Broccoli warned his children before he died. “You can screw it up if you want to, but don’t let other people screw it up.”
Barbara, 64, was 2 years old whenDr. Noopened in the U.K., and by the time she was a teenager, she was working on her dad’s movies. Michael, 83, took a more circuitous route to the family business, studying law and engineering before officially joining the franchise in 1972 (though he did have an early gig as an extra in 1964’sGoldfinger). The point is, Broccoli and Wilson were practically raised on the 007 soundstage at Pinewood. Bond is in their blood. So, when they inherited their father’s franchise, they took his words to heart.
“For Barbara and Michael, it’s always been franchise first,” says one Bond insider. “Nothing else got in the way.”
When they took it over in the mid-1990s, that franchise was in critical condition. Timothy Dalton’s two Bond films — 1987’sThe Living Daylightsand 1989’sLicense to Kill— had bombed. Cubby Broccoli, the man who had, with partner Harry Saltzman, ushered 007 onto the big screen in the 1960s, was dying of heart disease after triple bypass surgery. At the time, there was doubt that another Bond movie would ever get made. But Broccoli and Wilson managed to squeeze $60 million out of the studio to produceGoldenEye, which ended up grossing $356 million worldwide.
The partnership between EON and MGM was a bumpy one during the earlyPierce Brosnanera, but the studio chiefs back then — first John Calley, then Frank Mancuso — largely respected Broccoli and Wilson’s wishes, while the new producers learned to occasionally throw their corporate collaborators a bone (like giving in when MGM pushed for the casting of Denise Richards as a nuclear physicist in 1999’sThe World Is Not Enough). Indeed, over the years, enough trust was built between them that when Broccoli and Wilson came up with the radical idea in 2006 of pushing the reset button on the whole series and starting over with an updated origin story based on Ian Fleming’s first 007 novel,Casino Royale— and casting an unknown named Daniel Craig as the seventh Bond — MGM barely flinched.
Those last five Craig movies turned out to be the most profitable in the franchise’s history, each grossing more than $500 million and one of them — 2012’sSkyfall— becoming the first Bond film to gross more than a billion dollars. Obviously, those numbers were a large part of Amazon’s calculations to buy MGM in 2021— they certainly didn’t spend $8.5 billion for the Pink Panther. Broccoli and Wilson were said to be nervous about the sale of the nearly 100-year-old studio to the 21st century tech conglomerate, but they knew that even under new management they’d retain creative control. Amazon knew that too, but executives there — like Mike Hopkins, head of Prime Video, and Jennifer Salke, head of Amazon Studios — apparently believed they could sweet talk the Broccolis into expanding the brand beyond the single Bond film EON had been putting out every two or three years.
As Dr. No himself would put it, that was very foolish.
“We just try to focus on making good pictures, and it takes time, it takes a couple of years,” Wilson said in an interview shortly after MGM’s sale to Amazon was announced, telegraphing to his new owners his unwillingness to put Bond on television. “Putting all that energy into making 10 or 20 hours of a TV show, that’s a big commitment. We’d have to delegate to do that. And we’ve been very reluctant to delegate.”
His half sister expressed it even more bluntly in that interview. “It’s not something we’ve ever wanted to do,” she said.
Still, Amazon had ideas. Sources close to the franchise say the streamer approached the Broccolis with pitches for a TV series based on Moneypenny, the MI6 secretary who’s been batting eyes at Bond since Sean Connery’s days, as well as a show about Bond CIA buddy Felix Leiter, and maybe even something involving a female 007. Predictably, Broccoli and Wilson weren’t interested. There was hope early on at Amazon that former Warner Bros. exec Courtenay Valenti — the daughter of late MPAA boss Jack Valenti, who had come aboard MGM about a year after Amazon bought it, and whom Broccoli was said to have liked — might have some luck loosening up the Bond IP. But not even “the Barbara whisperer,” as Valenti was reportedly called inside Amazon, could sway Cubby’s kids. Relations grew even frostier after a meeting in which Salke reportedly mortified Broccoli by calling Bond “content.” Wilson, meanwhile, was said to be complaining about how he’d been unable to set up meetings with Amazon’s top brass.
Neither Amazon nor EON could be reached for comment on any of the above, but it’s clear that in the three years since Amazon purchased MGM — and the six years since production wrapped onNo Time to Die— zero progress had been made in getting 007 back onscreen. There’s no script for the next movie, no director and — most critically — no Bond. Sources say Amazon had suggested a few actors, but none the Broccolis would sign off on. In fact, the only Bond “content” that’s come out of Amazon is Prime’s little-noticed game show007: Road to a Million, which has proved so underwhelming, not even its host sounds like much of a fan. “I actually thought, ‘Oh wow, I’m getting a James Bond film,’ ” Brian Cox recently explained about how he accidentally accepted the gig. “And then I realized it wasn’t a Bond film but a game show.”
Meanwhile, as the franchise sputtered and stalled, Wilson, nearly 20 years older than Broccoli, decided to retire, leaving Barbara on her own with the Amazonians. The half-siblings (their mother was Dana Natol, Cubby’s second wife) couldn’t be more different. She’s liberal, he’s conservative; her passion is storytelling, he’s more into production engineering. But they had complementary skill sets. And they had absolute trust and faith in each other. “They didn’t always agree,” says a source. “But they had a way of working through to a resolution that they would both stand by. They never tried to do an end run around each other. They were always in it together.”
Wilson’s departure was said to be a big factor in Broccoli’s ultimate decision to walk away from the franchise. After 30 years of Bond movies, she no longer had the stomach or stamina for the endless studio battles or the years-long Bond production marathons, certainly not on her own. And there was no obvious successor ­— not even Wilson’s son, Greg, who’s been working on the recent films but who, insiders say, wasn’t considered ready to step into his father’s shoes.
In any case, it all came to a head in December, a month after Broccoli and Wilson picked up the Thalberg at the Governors Awards. That’s whenThe Wall Street Journalpublished a piece detailing the chilly state of affairs between Amazon and the Broccolis in which Barbara is quoted as telling friends that Amazon executives were “fucking idiots.” Not surprisingly, those choice words did not go over well with Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos. “He read her quote in theJournaland got on the phone and said, ‘I don’t care what it costs, get rid of her,’ ” is how one insider describes what happened, confirming that what Bezos ended up paying for the franchise was close to a billion dollars.
For that kind of money, Broccoli and Wilson must have decided, other people can screw it up all they want.
Amazon has a mixed record when it comes to franchises. It spent a reported billion dollars getting aLord of the Ringsseries,Rings of Power, onto its servers, only to end up with a show that nobody, not even Tolkien fans, thought was worth a billion dollars. Same goes for spy thrillers; it spent $300 million on a splashy 2023 drama,Citadel, which earned meh reviews and drew a middling audience.
It’s no wonder, then, that news of Amazon’s takeover was greeted like a death notice by Bond fans, who plastered the internet with “RIP 007” posts following the announcement. Even Dalton got into the act, with the onetime Bond telling the British press that he was “shocked” and “sad” about the sale, though he did add an upbeat note, predicting that Amazon will do its “best to make a lot of money, so hopefully they will make good movies.”
And — who knows? — maybe Amazon will. Because there is an opportunity here, now that Broccoli and Wilson are gone, for the streamer to reinvent an icon that could, truth be told, stand a little reinventing.
The fact is, the very same qualities that made the Broccolis such superb custodians of their father’s legacy are also ones that in some ways have stunted the franchise’s growth. Their iron grip on the series and rigid insistence on total creative control hasn’t always prevented the films from flying off the handle or ballooning into bloated, confusing messes (that bit inSpectrewhere Bond learns Blofeld is his brother — wasn’t that an Austin Powers plot point?). It also has resulted in some spectacular missed opportunities. Broccoli and Wilson, for instance, could have been a bit more accommodating to Christopher Nolan when he was reportedly sniffing around afterTenet, hinting that he’d be interested in directing a Bond movie. Perhaps it was worth at least considering giving final cut to the guy who reinvented Batman. After all, if his film about the A-bomb could make a billion dollars, imagine what Nolan’s Bond movie could do. (Also, while we’re on the subject, is that Moneypenny spinoff really such a dumb idea? Look at what Max just did withThe Penguin.)
But, of course, along with opportunities, there are huge challenges. To begin with, with the Broccolis out of the picture, Amazon will be starting from scratch as it rebuilds one of the largest franchises in the history of cinema. From the beginning, the Bond films have been something of a movable feast, with many of the same people — from casting (Debbie McWilliams) to costuming (Lindy Hemming) to screenwriting (Neal Purvis and Robert Wade cranked out first-draft scripts for the past seven films), along with stunt coordinators, publicists, caterers and others — reassembling to make a 007 movie. “It’s always been like a family,” says one member of the clan. “There are stories about Cubby on the set making pasta for everybody. And it was the same with Barbara and Michael. They became the center of the family. They were always there.”
Whoever ends up cooking pasta on the set of the next Bond movie — and Amazon hasn’t signaled who it’ll pick to produce in place of Broccoli and Wilson — they’ll likely be cooking for an entirely different crew. And that’s a problem. Despite Broccoli’s assessment in theJournal, there are smart people at Amazon with years of experience managing big-budget properties. But there’s nobody there with any institutional memory of how to make a Bond movie. And Bond movies are notoriously difficult to make, with production schedules that stretch for eight months, publicity campaigns that last even longer, and location shoots around the world.
More importantly, there’s nobody at Amazon who understands James Bond the character the way Broccoli and Wilson do, on a molecular level.
“People think they know James Bond because they know the iconography of the martini and the gun and the gadgets,” says John Cork, who wrote the Bond bible for EON in the mid-’90s, when Broccoli and Wilson were first starting out. “But there is a very particular set of things that occur below the surface that have kept the character resonating for over 60 years. There’s a line from the novelGoldfingerabout how high tension was Bond’s ‘natural way of life’ and that ‘pressure and danger relaxed him’. Amazon is going to need to get people in the room who understand that.”
If Amazon can do that — and also some other things, like casting the right actor, finding the right director and landing the right script — then maybe, just maybe, James Bond gets out of this alive.
This story appeared in the March 6 issue of The Hollywood Reporter magazine.Click here to subscribe.
Sign up for THR news straight to your inbox every day
----------------------------------------
Title: Blake Lively Debuts New ‘Simple Favor’ Movie to a Warm Welcome at SXSW Amid Legal Battle
Date: 2025-03-08T03:44:29+00:00
Content:
Another Simple Favorearned a very warm welcome from the Austin audience at the opening night of the SXSW Film and TV festival, as starBlake Livelypremiered her first movie since her ongoing and well-publicizedlegal battle with herIt Ends with Usdirector and co-starJustin Baldoni.
Lively was on hand at The Paramount theater, along with her co-starAnna Kendrick, director Paul Feig, and much of the rest of the film’s cast including Andrew Rannells, Elizabeth Perkins and Alex Newell.
“I love these characters so much and thought they would be so fun to revisit,” said Feig in the post-screening Q&A of making the sequel. For her part, Lively called herSimple Favorcharacter, Emily Nelson, “My favorite character I have ever been fortunate enough to play.”Related StoriesMovies'Another Simple Favor' First Reactions Praise Anna Kendrick and Blake Lively's "Top-Notch Chemistry"Movies'It Ends' Review: A Road Trip Takes a Dark Turn in a Well-Crafted if Repetitive Indie Thriller
Another Simple Favor, which will hit Amazon’s streaming service on May 1, takes place after the events of the 2018 film and follows Stephanie Smothers (Kendrick) and Emily (Lively) as they head to the island of Capri for the latter’s lavish wedding. Emily is set to marry a wealthy Italian businessman, with murder and betrayal finding their way onto the agenda.
A Simple Favorgrossed $97 million at the global box office and has steadily reached camp classic status as audiences flocked to the movie on streaming. Lively said at the premiere, “I was really nervous on the first one, because I didn’t know if we were making a drama or a comedy. We asked Paul, and he said ‘Yes,’ which is not really an answer to the question.”
The second film ups the ante in the camp department, with more outrageous outfits and plot twists than the first movie. “Right before we started shooting [Feig] said, ‘I have a real curve ball idea.’ I am not going to say what it was because I am not going to give away anything but it definitely upped the ante. It was very uncomfortable to watch in this theater with all of you,” said Lively of one of the film’s particularly unexpected turns.
As for Kendrick, she said that she was excited to return forAnother Simple Favorbut questioned her character’s willingness to see her murderous best friend again. ”On this one, I thought, if I am going with her into certain peril, that I guess she wouldn’t take any of it that seriously,” said Kendrick. “And I had just rewatchedKiss Kiss Bang Bangwhere Robert Downey is like, ‘There is murder and mayhem but I’m fine!’”
The Austin audience appreciated being back in the world ofA Simple Favor. And, at this year’s SXSW, Amazon titles make up the lion’s share of the headliners. Outside ofSimple Favor, the studio will also premiere Ben Affleck-starrerThe Accountant 2and Nicole Kidman’s thrillerHolland.
At a panel right before theFriday premiere, Amazon MGM Studios head Jennifer Salke and head of film Courtenay Valenti talked about the studio’s theatrical efforts, saying that Amazon MGM would release 12 to 14 movies theatrically in 2026. This comes after the studio announced plans to expand their international distribution and marketing efforts and before they make their debut in front of theater owners at CinemaCon next month.
Valenti said, “This company is committed to theatrical and I think the real evidence of it is our expansive slate.”
Sign up for THR news straight to your inbox every day
----------------------------------------
Title: ‘CHAOS: The Manson Murders’ Review: Errol Morris’ Tease of a Netflix Doc Is More Interesting to Think About Than to Watch
Date: 2025-03-07T03:55:08+00:00
Content:
The official description for Netflix’s new documentaryCHAOS: The Manson Murdersinvites viewers to “Explore a conspiracy of mind control, CIA experiments and murder.”
The trailer for theErrol Morris-directed film, which is based on Tom O’Neill and Dan Piepenbring’s 2019 book (CHAOS:Charles Manson, the CIA, and the Secret History of the Sixties), suggests roughly the same thing, with lots of flashy editing and creepy Manson cutaways.CHAOS: The Manson MurdersThe Bottom LineCompelling in concept, bland in execution.Airdate:Friday, March 7 (Netflix)Director:Errol Morris1 hour 36 minutes
This is probably a recipe to deliver the largest audience of Morris’ storied career, because there are few things the Netflix algorithm steers people to more reliably than sensationalistic chronicles of mass murderers.Related StoriesLifestyleFossil Debuts Minecraft-Inspired Watches and More Ahead of the Hit Video Game's Hollywood PremiereNewsJustice on Computer Malfunctions, Stage Fright and Owing a Debt to Daft Punk
I’ll be interested to see how audiences respond toCHAOS— whether some viewers come away thinking the doc actually advocates for “a conspiracy of mind control, CIA experiments and murder,” which it definitely doesn’t, and whether some viewers get frustrated because it fails to prove “a conspiracy of mind control, CIA experiments and murder,” which it definitely doesn’t attempt to do.
Morris is too pragmatic and calculating a filmmaker to make the documentary thatCHAOSand Netflix suggest it’s going to be. Instead,CHAOSis about our desire or need to craft narratives around the terrifying and unknowable, how those narratives come to be accepted as “truth,” and the challenges of revising those narratives once they’re entrenched.
It’s a complicated meta-commentary delivered loosely in the guise of a ghoulish conspiracy thriller, presented in rushed form to an audience that would happily devour many more hours of the actual ghoulish conspiracy thriller that this is not.
Conversations with O’Neill make up the spine of the documentary, as he’s able to link Charles Manson, a recently paroled ex-convict slowly building up a cult in San Francisco in the late 1960s, with Louis “Jolly” West, a psychiatrist connected with the CIA’s MKUltra project through the Haight-Ashbury Free Clinic. O’Neill can connect Manson to the clinic and he can connect West to the clinic, and he can connect the mission of the MKUltra project to what Manson was able to achieve in the brainwashing and mind-controlling of his followers.
What he cannot do, what he admits he cannot do, is connect Manson to West or Manson directly to MKUltra, or to the CIA’s Operation CHAOS or the FBI’s COINTELPRO, two parallel programs in which the American intelligence apparatus investigated and often undermined domestic organizations.
O’Neill is exactly the sort of committed obsessive Morris has built a career out of chronicling (and not just because the MKUltra stuff was central to Netflix’sWormwood). If what Morris had wanted to do here was support O’Neill’s case or debunk O’Neill’s case, he’s a trained researcher who surely could have done that, or at least made the attempt. What he does instead is listen, because although Morris isn’t convinced by anything, he’s curious throughout.
Instead of speaking with O’Neill primarily through the Interrotron, the Morris-created device that allows him to let his subjects speak directly to him and the audience simultaneously, long stretches of their chats are filmed with both men on-camera, with the gaze directed at Morris’ face, not O’Neill’s. This lets us see whom O’Neill’s stories are primarily directed at. It’s mostly a performance for an intrigued listener, a director who doesn’t want to give O’Neill’s version of events his fullest visual authority.
O’Neill probably believes what he’s selling. Morris doesn’t not-believe.
Morris is shopping. He’s skeptical about the dominant narrative surrounding the Manson Murders, which for decades has been steered by prosecutor Vincent Bugliosi’sHelter Skelter. In that bestselling book, adapted multiple times for television, the Tate–LaBianca murders represent the logical nadir of the counterculture, a warning of the consequences of a decade of permissiveness toward sex, drugs, racial progressivism and rock-n-roll.
Morris is able to explain why that story is convenient, why it was self-serving for Bugliosi, why it has been so enticing, and what agendas it has been used toward. But Morris has always been cautious about monoculturally accepted narratives, so he builds this documentary around at least four different interpretations of events.
There’s O’Neill’s conspiracy theory, which isn’t given room to make total sense, but at least is helpful when it comes to understanding some of the biggest questions regarding how Manson was able to get his followers to do what they did. That is, if you buy any of it.
There’s the Bugliosi version of events, reenforced exhaustively here by prosecutor Stephen Kay, repeating stories he’s been telling in courtrooms, books and news reports since 1970. There are new audio interviews with Bobby Beausoleil, who was arrested for a different Manson-related murder. Beausoleil, clearly exhausted with the mythologizing of his former friend, gives his own explanation for events that he admits is “mundane,” the polar opposite of O’Neill’s wild swing.
Somewhere in the middle of this, Morris breaks down the dry basics of the case, telling the story of the murders through court transcripts and subsequent interviews that Manson and his followers did.
The dry basics of the case are where Morris andCHAOSflounder a little and cause the documentary to lose the directness of its argument. I’m not a Manson obsessive, but I’ve read Bugliosi’s book and watched and listened to various podcasts and docuseries on the subject, and this may be the first approach to the events that I’ve found straight-up boring. I respect Morris’ desire to avoid tawdriness in the depiction of the murders and I guess he’s probably correct that you can’t tell this story assuming that every single viewer will have a wide-ranging awareness of a 55-year-old crime. But there’s maybe 45 minutes in the middle of the documentary that’s just bland regurgitation.
It’s intentionally bland. It’s what you get if you strip away our fascination with celebrity and victimization, if you strip away our gawking appetite for brutality, if you don’t try finding a “story” in the Manson Murders that fits into a societally acceptable genre or theme through which to process the tragedy. the documentary.
Otherwise, Morris is an active and engaged presence in the documentary, making himself an avatar for the audience’s own interest. He can be ghoulish and gross himself, as when, regarding the discovery of Gary Hinman’s body, he says to Kay: “I read somewhere that they could hear the maggots eating him.” Kay doesn’t engage at all. He can be prurient, as when he asks Gregg Jakobson to set the scene at Dennis Wilson’s cabin, overrun with Manson groupies and music industry types. And he can be incredulous, as he tries to push O’Neill for specifics he knows the author doesn’t possess.
“People are very fond of their fantasy,” Beausoleil says, aware that whatever the choices, his own interpretation of events will likely be the least enticing.
Morris doesn’t say what “fantasy” is his own and he doesn’t push viewers in one direction or another, so be very wary of anybody who watchesCHAOSand comes away saying that it’s a doc about Manson’s connections to MKUltra or anything related to “conspiracy of mind control, CIA experiments and murder.”
Anybody who gets an “answer” of any sort fromCHAOShas missed the entire point of the documentary, which is a story about the need for stories when it comes to explaining the unexplainable. If you come away thinking Morris failed, that probably means he succeeded, which I find compelling as an idea if not always in this execution.
Sign up for THR news straight to your inbox every day
----------------------------------------
Title: Cash Cobain, Bay Swag & Rob49 Are ‘Trippin on a Yacht’: Watch
Date: 2025-03-07T21:37:16+00:00
Content:
Cash Cobainmakes addictive music.
Since hepreviewed“Trippin on a Yacht” onPlaqueBoyMax‘s stream earlier this year, the snippet has been all over TikTok, as has become a tradition when it comes to musiche purposely teaseson social media. And when he finally dropped the single, we included it on ourFresh Picks of the Weekcolumn.
So today we present to you themusic video, which was shot in New Orleans, directed by Frankie and produced by FreeWater. With Cash flipping a sample of a New Orleans bounce beat, it made sense to hit Nola for the visuals. N.O. nativeRob49, showed them some of that southern hospitality as he took Cash andBay Swagthrough his city where they ended up partying on a yacht with India Love amidst a ton of booties bouncing. Maybe they can getJustin Bieberon the remix, with Biebervelli recentlyouting himselfas a member of the Slizzy Mafia and the kids are calling him Slizzy Bieber.RelatedFor j-hope, Military Service Was an 'Opportunity for More Exploration': 'I Found a Lot of New…03/07/2025ExploreSee latest videos, charts and newsCash CobainRob49See latest videos, charts and news
See latest videos, charts and news
See latest videos, charts and news
Cash is starting his year off on a good foot as he looks to follow up his impressive debut albumPlay Cash Cobain. Expect to hear the words “I think I gotta take another shot/ I think I fell in love with a thot/ The Don Julio got me hot” a lot this summer, especially in New York City.Trending on Billboard
It looks like we’re in foranother Slizzy Summerand the only question is: Will this summer be slizzier than the last?
Watch the video below.
Get weekly rundowns straight to your inbox
----------------------------------------
Title: How Trinidadian Soca Artists Full Blown, Lady Lava & Tendaji Are Honoring Tradition While Charting the Genre’s Next Era
Date: 2025-03-03T21:15:38+00:00
Content:
If there’s a current “big three” when it comes to different styles of Caribbeanmusic, it’s probably reggae, dancehall andsoca. BetweenBuju Banton’sStateside returnandVybz Kartel’sreleasefrom prison and subsequent Freedom Street bonanza, reggae and dancehall, respectively, earned much-needed boosts to their global profiles thanks to the massive legacy of those Jamaican giants. Now, it’s soca’s turn – and Trinidad is leading the charge.
Led by a slew of joyous, anthemic hits – including leading road march contenders from Bunji Garlin (“Carry It”) and Machel Montano’s (“Pardy”) – this season’s soca anthems are connecting with audiences in a very special way. After soca band Kes played a sold-out concert at New York’s Brooklyn Paramount last year (Dec. 14), the crowd spilled out into the streets, belting out Destra and Montano’s classic “It’s Carnival,” despite the sub-20-degree weather. Last month, Montano timed the release of “Pardy” for the same week he made history with thefirst-ever soca setfor NPR’s Tiny Desk concert series.Trending on Billboard
Meanwhile, Trinidadian-born rap megastarNicki Minajjoined forceswith Trinidad Killa for a soca-flavored track called “Eskimo,” and she recentlyteased a remixof Garlin’s infectious “Carry It.” And, of course, there’s no legitimate discussion of 2025 soca that doesn’t include Yung Bredda’s “The Greatest Bend Over” and Full Blown’s culture-quaking “Big Links” riddim.
On March 3 and 4, tens of thousands of revelers will parade in the streets across Trinidad, honoring the centuries-old Afrocentric celebrations that evolved into today’s Carnival festivities. In addition to the liberating mayhem of J’ouvert morning’s Stink & Dutty Mas and the extravagant costumes of Pretty Mas, Trinidad Carnival also incorporates traditional elements steeped in the island’s rich and sacred history. The national stickfighting competition honors Kalinda martial art and the annual reenactment of the Kambulé riots – a series of 1880s protests against colonial police’s efforts to restrict certain freedoms and aspects of culture – keep history at the center of the celebration.
Of course, music is also an integral part of Trinidad Carnival, with a slew of competitions providing unforgettable entertainment, including Calypso Monarch, Soca Monarch, the King and Queen of the Bands, Panorama, the Carnival Road March. Before the winners of those competitions are decided – particularly Soca Monarch and the Carnival Road March – producers and artists spent the months leading up to Carnival dropping their best swings at the season’s defining soca anthems.
On Sunday (March 2), Montano, who already boasts six International Soca Monarch wins and 10 Road March victories, won his first-ever Chutney Soca Monarch title with “Pepper Vine.” Montano came up short at Calypso Monarch, landing in fifth place with “Bet Meh” behind Helon Francis’ “To Whom It May Be” — as did Yung Bredda, who placed third with “We Rise,” his first-ever showing at a Calypso Monarch final.
Bredda has quickly emerged as one of the defining voices of soca this year with “The Greatest Bend Over,” his take on Full Blown’s “Big Links” riddim, which dropped late last year (Dec. 2, 2024). A Trini star who plays both soca and calypso music, Beedd recently appeared inBillboard’sweekly“Trending Up” columnthanks to the steadily rising Stateside streaming totals for “Bend Over.” His sweet, perfect-for-all-ages track is joined by contributions from Montana (“The Truth”) and Kes (“No Sweetness”), as well as “Good Spirits,” the first song penned to the riddim and a notable step into the spotlight for Full Blown as recording artists.
“One day we were messing with some different melodies and exchanging ideas; I would do the music and Kevon would do the writing,” recalls Kory Hart, one-half of Full Blown, from the very studio in which the sibling duo crafted the “Big Links” riddim. “The public sees the highs more than anything else, but we’ve been through a lot of difficult periods. That’s where ‘Good Spirits’ really came from.”
After cutting “Good Spirits,” the brothers decided to make it a riddim because “it helps when people see a big name like Machel Montano as the lead artist.” Full Blown — the Trini sibling production duo of Kory and Kevon Hart — has been working with Montano for over 15 years now, so their collaboration was as natural as it was inevitably great. A later session with Kes at producer Tano’s studio led to “No Sweetness,” which would have been the final song on the riddim if not for the duo’s nagging feeling that they needed Yung Bredda on it as well. Full Blown initially brought the 24-year-old entertainer to the studio “because [they] wanted somebody who would write their own song, so that [they] wouldn’t have to do so.”
Once he heard the riddim, Bredda wanted the duo to write the song, so the collaboration was “put on the shelf for a second.” After sitting with the riddim for a few more weeks, Kevon started sketching out an idea for “The Greatest Bend Over” while his brother was out, and Kory helped structure the song when he returned. Accented by its notable incorporation of zess, a Trinidadian dancehall subgenre, the composition and resounding success of the “Big Links” riddim epitomize Full Blown’s commitment to crafting soca that’s steeped in tradition and unafraid to push forward into new sonic territories.
“The introduction is dominated by thetabla, a percussion instrument that’s the identifying mark of zess,” explains Hart. “It would be a typical groovy soca beat without it. Zess has a very large following among the youth in Trinidad, but [those artists] have been struggling to be accepted by mainstream Trini music – which is soca. For us, this was a very clever way of combining the two and showing the Zess artists that they do what we do, just in a different way.”
In addition to the “Big Links” riddim, Lady Lava’s “Ring Finger” is also making waves across the Caribbean diaspora. A Trini recording artist and poet, Lady Lava has been making music since 2008, cultivating a unique lane characterized by lyrics of female empowerment. With her career back on the upswing after a down period marked by the quick succession of her first pregnancy and the COVID-19 pandemic, Lady Lava is seizing her moment – and courting new fanslike Grammy-winning rapper Cardi B.
“You don’t have a ring, then you don’t have a mister,” she proclaims over Aaron Duncan’s thumping “Summer Steam” riddim. A musical reminder to never let a no-good man pull the wool over your eyes, “Ring Finger” is a soca anthem for women by a woman – one that stands out from the scores of odes to wining women sung by male soca artists.
It’s that feminist bent that’s allowed “Ring Finger” to enjoy such marked longevity: The song was a local hit when it first dropped in summer 2024, but TikTok virality over the fall and the winter kept wind in its sails. Theofficial“Ring Finger” TikTok sound plays in over 22,000 posts, and theaudiofrom a live performance soundtracks a further 13,000 posts. Last month (Feb. 19), Lava graced On the Radar with “Ring Finger,” marking a rare soca number on the buzzy live performance platform. By infusing contemporary soca instrumentation with brash lyricism sourced from her poetry background and the femme-forward approach of female dancehall giants like ’90s and ‘00s hitmaker Lady Saw, Lady Lava is ushering in a new era of soca for a younger audience.
“I still write a poem about everything,” she says. “If I wanted to tell somebody something, I would write it in a poem. Music is me putting poem to riddims, that’s how my style of writing does be like that. I like to rhyme and use metaphors and compare things that totally don’t have anything to do with each other just to get people thinking.”
Getting people to think beyond grooving to the music is also the primary goal for Tendaji, a Trinidadian singer, songwriter, and music who bridges traditional calypso and modern soca. With a musical profile anchored by the drums and lavways (call-and-response chants) that soundtracked stickfighting competition, Tendanji is perhaps one of the most fearless Trinidad recording artists when it comes to centering history in the music.
His most recent release, “Doh Cry,” features a music video that showcases the stickfighting tradition in a cinematic, black-and-white aesthetic. At the end of the song, Tendaji calls out the names of stickfighting warriors of eras past, including King Kali, King Bara, King David and King Stokely, honoring their influence and highlighting how stickfighting connects the Trinidad of today to its Afro-Indigenous roots. He built the song with Rishi Mahato of Maha Productions, a prominent chutney music producer who brought some of those elements to the “strongly African, strongly Jouvay energy” of “Doh Kry,” a reminder that “Trinidad is not just one sound,” as Tendaji stresses.
“There’s a lot of music out there for Pretty Feathers Mass. There’s a lot of music out there to wine and jam on Carnival Tuesday, but there ain’t nothing for the jab jab, the blue devils, the stick fighters, etc.” he says. “When Carnival Monday comes, we ain’t looking for flowers music. We want to get into character. We want to go down inside weself. Carnival has a ritualistic element, and because of my history and involvement in the character mas so much, I try to make music that reps them as well.”
Whether through composition, lyrics or presentation, Full Blown, Lady Lava and Tendaji are all making incredible strides in defining the future of soca – especially as the genre eyes a potential global crossover moment off the back of this season’s biggest hits. Notting Hill Carnival is still several months away, for example, but “The Greatest Bend Over” has already gotten so much traction in the U.K. that it would have entered the country’s Afrobeats charts, had it fit the appropriate sonic profile, according to a phone conversation Full Blown had with BBC Radio 1Xtra personnel two weeks ago. All three acts agree that the “crossover” will happen with foreign listeners meeting Trini soca artists on their turf. The era of concessions is over.
“I think we’re getting braver in terms of saying things the way we say it. I don’t know if Afrobeats’ [success] helped with that, but we sing it all the time down here and don’t even know what they’re saying all the time. But it sounds good,” says Hart. “I think the same thing will happen with us and our Trini dialect. Our ‘crossover hits’ have been very few and far between. We’re starting to see that soca has more appeal.”
As the music industry marches further into this era of increased globalization, different styles and genres that may have taken a backseat in past eras now have an opportunity to lead the charge. Trinidad is churning out soca hits that will hopefully lay the foundation for future bouyon crossover hits from St. Lucia and Dominica.
“Even the Jamaicans — who, oftentimes, we wish we were in their shoes so we could have our genres recognized — are looking to soca now because they believe that soca is the next thing,” Hart proclaims. “Our confidence is building; we’re finding our voice and our space and realizing that if we keep it up consistently, the world will catch up to us eventually.”
Get weekly rundowns straight to your inbox
----------------------------------------
Title: John Summit: Photos From the Billboard Cover Shoot
Date: 2025-03-06T15:02:52+00:00
Content:
The show was, unequivocally, going off.
In time with the beat, columns of fire blasted from a complicated and expensive-looking stage setup as a litany of dance hits blasted through the speakers of Los Angeles’ Kia Forum, where more than 15,000 people and their approximately 30,000 ears were gathered to hear the music.
Drunk girls traded compliments in line for the bathroom while staffers trying to prevent fire hazards cajoled people to dance in their seats instead of the aisles. It was a proper arena rager, a de facto badge of success for any artist, but particularly so in the world of dance music.
At the center of it all, John Summit — tanned, smiling, his shirt unbuttoned to a chest level that suggested a regular workout routine — threw up heart hands while manning the cockpit of CDJs before him. It was Nov. 16, 2024, the final evening of the producer’s sold-out three-night run at the Forum, shows executed by a 130-person team working overtime. It was just one of the very big moments of Summit’s biggest year to date, and while the set wasn’t even done yet, in his mind it was already over.
“I got too comfortable by the end,” he reflects three months later, “and I was like, ‘This show is done. This is the last one.’ And not because it wasn’t great. I think it was excellent. But I don’t want to write the same movie twice.”
Read the full John Summit Billboardcover story here.
John Summit performs at Billboard Presents THE STAGE at SXSW at Moody Amphitheater at Waterloo Park in Austin on March 15. Get your ticketshere.
OFY top, Lost ‘N Found pants, Tercero Jewelry necklace and rings.
OFY top, Lost ‘N Found pants, Rick Owens shoes, Tercero Jewelry necklace and rings.
CUBEL x The Room jacket and pants, Lost ‘N Found tee, Tercero Jewelry rings.
OFY top and tee, Lost ‘N Found x Levi’s pants, Rick Owens x Dr. Martens shoes, Tercero Jewelry rings.
Styling by Brianna Dooley. Grooming by Natasha Smee at Creative Management. On-Site Production by Daniela Molina at Out of Service.
Get weekly rundowns straight to your inbox
----------------------------------------