Title: London’s Ultra-Low Emission Zone Expansion Has Effectively Reduced Air Pollution, Report Finds
Date: 2025-03-07T21:40:36+00:00
Content:
Founded in 2005 as an Ohio-based environmental newspaper, EcoWatch is a digital platform dedicated to publishing quality, science-based content on environmental issues, causes, and solutions.
In London, the implementation and expansion of the Ultra-Low Emission Zone (ULEZ) has reduced air pollution by decreasing amounts of nitrogen dioxide, fine particulate matter and carbon emissions, according tonew databy City Hall reviewed by independent air quality experts.
In total, air quality in London is improving at a faster rate compared to the rest of England, and the ULEZ has reduced enough carbon emissions to equal the impact of removing 3 million one-way passenger trips from Heathrow Airport to New York City, according to the report.
The Ultra-Low Emission Zone was first implemented in 2019, when it became the first low-emission zone to operate 24/7. In February 2023, a peer-reviewed study by the London mayor’s office showed that the zone was working after an initial expansion to include inner London. At that point, the zone had led to a21% decreasein nitrogen dioxide levels in inner London and a 46% reduction in these emissions in central London. That report also found a decline in fine particulate matter and carbon emissions both inside the ULEZ and across London entirely.
In August 2023, the ULEZ wasexpanded againto cover the entire city, with expectations that this move would improve air quality for 5 million more people living in London’s outer boroughs. The ULEZ is now the largest low-emission zone globally.
Now, new data proves the expanded low-emission zone has made serious improvements to the air quality in and around the city, including a 27% decline in nitrogen dioxide levels, across London.
“When I was first elected, evidence showed it would take 193 years to bring London’s air pollution within legal limits if the current efforts continued. However, due to our transformative policies we are now close to achieving it this year,” London Mayor Sadiq Khansaid in a statement. “Today’s report shows that ULEZ works, driving down levels of pollution, taking old polluting cars off our roads and bringing cleaner air to millions more Londoners.”
The report revealed that fine particulate matter levels were 31% lower in the outer boroughs of London than they would have been without the expansion, and air quality has improved at 99% of city-wide air quality monitoring sites since 2019.
According to data from Transport for London (TfL), the number of ULEZ-compliant vehicles in London is now 96.7%, compared to just 39% in February 2017 and 91.6% in June 2023. There are about 100,000 fewer non-compliant vehicles per day on average in London as of September 2024 compared to June 2023, just before the ULEZ was expanded to cover the entire city.
Officials noted the transition to cleaner vehicles is in part thanks to theULEZ scrappage program, which offered a total of £200 million ($258.37 million) in grants for people who wanted to either retrofit non-compliant vehicles, scrap them with goals of buying a cleaner vehicle, or donate the older vehicles to Ukraine. The program received over 54,000 applications.
For critics concerned over economic impacts of the ULEZ on local tourism and businesses, officials noted that retail and leisure spending weren’t impacted by the expansion, and visitor footfall even increased nearly 2% since the zone was expanded to cover the outer boroughs.
To further improve London’s air quality, the city is also adding more “zero-emission” buses, offeringfree and discountedpublic transportation opportunities, expanding cycling networks and installing more EV charging infrastructure. The mayor has set a target forat least 80%of trips in the city to be made by walking, cycling or riding public transportation by 2041.
“Improving air quality through initiatives like the Ultra Low Emission Zone in London is crucial for protecting public health and reducing the burden of disease,” Dr. Maria Neira, director of the Department of Environment, Climate Change and Health at the World Health Organization (WHO), said in a statement. “Cleaner air leads to healthier communities, lower rates of respiratory and cardiovascular illnesses, and a better quality of life for all residents.”
By signing up, you agree to theTerms of UseandPrivacy Policy& to receive electronic communications from EcoWatch Media Group, which may include marketing promotions, advertisements and sponsored content.
By signing up, you agree to theTerms of UseandPrivacy Policy& to receive electronic communications from EcoWatch Media Group, which may include marketing promotions, advertisements and sponsored content.
----------------------------------------
Title: Solar Calculator: Estimate Your Home Solar Costs & Savings
Date: No Publication Date
Content:
Understand your solar options with EcoWatch
We work with solar experts to empower you to make the right choice for your home’s energy security and sustainability. Your results are powered by our access to unique industry insights and data.
Use this solar calculator for a quick estimate of the savings you could see by installing solar panels. Our estimates use your location, shade level and electricity bill to provide an analysis of your solar potential.
We will not sell, trade or share your personal information without your explicit consent. Our results are not based on revenue or partnerships; they are intended purely to inform.
Choose your electricity provider from the list below.
The amount of shade that your roof gets.
Roof age can impact the cost of solar panel installation.
EcoWatch’s solar calculator is one of the best tools to help you determine your potential solar energy savings for the new year. This calculator not only estimates how much money you can save in your lifetime if you go solar, but it lays out a recommended size of your solar system, financing options and estimated payback period.
To take the first step towards your solar savings and connect with a preferred installer, follow these easy steps:
After you turn to renewable energy, your monthly electricity bill will decrease for decades to come. In the best-case scenario, solar can help you offset your bills entirely, although that possibility is changing as more states start to move to net metering 3.0. In general, eliminating your electric bills with solar will soon require the addition of batteries. Still, savings will be significant either way.
Homeowners like to see their electric bills extinguished, but there are a few factors that affect how much of a reduction you’ll see:
You can easily contact your utility company to get a report of how much energy you consume each month, or you can check your electric bill for historical information for the previous year. For reference, the average home in the U.S. consumes around 881 kilowatt-hours (kWh) per month, or 10,572 kWh annually. Once you have that number in kilowatt-hours (kWh), you can determine the cost of each kWh.
For the sake of this example, we are going to use the national average yearly energy consumption of 10,572 kWh1 and the average U.S. residential cost per kWh of 16.29 cents.2
Step 1:Let’s say that 10,572 kWh is how much electricity you use each year at the cost of 16.29 cents, or $0.1629. You would multiply these numbers together to get:
10,572 kWh (your annual energy consumption) x $0.1629 (cost per kWh)= $1,722 per year
Step 2: You spend about $1,722 each year on electricity without solar power. Now let’s say your solar panels are expected to generate 10,000 kW of electricity in one year. We would now subtract this expected amount of electricity from the amount you’re expected to consume:
10,572 kWh (your energy use) – 10,000 kWh (solar energy)= 572 kWh leftover
Step 3: Your system covers most of your energy consumption, but there is some leftover that you’ll need to pay for each month. Let’s determine how much by doing the same calculation we used to find out how much electricity you consume in a year:
572 kWh (leftover energy) X $0.1629 (cost per kWh)= $93 per year
Step 4: With the help of solar energy, you’ll only pay $93 per year on energy, or about $7.75 per month. This number may look different depending on the house and the time of year, but it does give us a good estimate overall. Your total savings would be:
$1,722 (total energy cost) – $93 (leftover for you to pay)= $1,629 in savings each year
This is a simplification, as our calculator also factors in rising utility rates, shade level on your home, the degradation rate of solar panels and more. However, these four steps reflect in simple terms how to approach the costs and savings associated with going solar.
Over the 25 years your panels are expected to continue to produce sufficient energy, that’s an average of $40,725 in electric bill savings just by converting to solar.
Before you install your photovoltaic modules, you’ll want to knowhow many solar panels you’ll needto offset your utility bills. Installing too few will leave you with reduced savings, and installing too many gives you a diminishing return, as no amount of panels will generate sufficient power to eliminate your consumption at night or in the early mornings. You will need to determine how much energy you use each month to accurately use this savings calculator.
A kilowatt-hour refers to energy consumption of 1,000 watts in one hour, and this is how your electricity company summarizes your monthly energy use. You will use this number to calculate the number of solar panels you need to cover your electric bill.
To calculate the number of panels you’ll need to cover your electric bill, follow the steps below.
Step 1: To calculate your daily energy use, simply divide your monthly energy use by the number of days in the month (i.e. 30 days). We will use 30 kWh for daily consumption in our example, which is around the U.S. average of 29.4 kWh.
Step 2: Determine the hours of sunlight you get each day. This number can range from fewer than three to more than six depending on your geological location and time of year, but we will use 5 hours to keep this simple. You can get a more accurate number for your area by using thesolar irradiance mapfrom the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL), but our calculator also includes this crucial metric.
Step 3. Divide your daily kWh needed by the hours of sunlight your panels are expected to get:
30 kWh (your energy use) / 5 hours (sunlight)= 6 kW needed per hour
Step 4.Some energy is lost when your solar inverter converts your direct current (DC) into alternating current (AC), so you will need to divide your 6 kW by about 80%, or 0.8. You’ll then convert kilowatts to watts by multiplying by 1000:
6 kW / 0.8= 7.5 kW DC
7.5 kW x 1,000= 7,500 watts
Step 5. Divide the amount of watts required by your solar panel’s power rating. This rating is the amount of watts your panel is expected to produce. The number of watts can vary, but we’ll use a 250-watt panel for this example to get the number of panels you would need:
7,500W (your energy needs) / 250W (solar panel rating)= 25 solar panels
Yoursolar payback periodis the time it will take for your solar system to generate enough electricity to pay for itself. Every year, your solar panels will save you money on your monthly utility bill, which will eventually completely repay your investment.
Just like with system costs, there are also many factors to consider when calculating your solar savings estimate, including:
Energy bill savings will always be relative to the costs of electricity in your region, so areas that have higher utility costs tend to have shorter payback periods.
To calculate your potential payback period, you simply divide the total cost of your solar system by your average yearly savings in electricity. So, if you paid $30,000 for your solar panels and your average yearly electricity savings are $3,000, it will take just 10 years for your solar system to be paid off.
The warrantied lifetime of most solar panel systems is 25 years, so with a 10-year payback period, you can then enjoy 15 or more years of free, renewable energy that provide net savings.
It’s important to note that your solar conversion costs will likely be higher than $30,000 if you live in an area where NEM 3.0 is being adopted and batteries will soon be a requirement. However, with batteries installed, you can also offset your consumption at night and in the morning, so you should end up with higher savings each month, as well.
Like all home improvement options, there are severalpayment optionsavailable. These three most common options include:
If you pay cash upfront, you will ultimately pay the least for your solar system because you won’t have to pay interest or buy electricity from a solar leasing company. Not every homeowner has the means to pay in full, so loan and lease options are commonly used.
Loans and leases may become more prevalent as solar conversion costs increase with the need for solar batteries. The average solar battery adds $10,000 to the total cost of going solar — an average of $29,970 before the federal tax credit — and many homeowners will need two batteries to eliminate their electric bills with the worsening net metering policies.
Several factors affect the price of a solar power system, but the following are the most important when trying to calculate your solar estimate:
Solar panel systems are priced per kilowatt, so the bigger your system, the more it’s going to cost upfront. However, a larger system is also going to produce more solar kilowatt-hours, which will offset more of your energy costs and could save you more money in the long run.
The only way to definitively know the number of solar panels you’ll need is to get a professional assessment. However, you can get a rough solar panel estimate by following these five steps:
To prepare for your professional assessment, use our solar calculator at the top of the page. The information you get from simply inputting your address can help you better understand your quotes and see if installers are undersizing, oversizing slightly to future-proof your system or oversizing too much to maximize the sale cost. Ultimately, using the solar calculator could save you money.
Quality matters for solar panel cost and functionality. Panels with higher energy efficiency can deliver more watts per square foot, which means you need to purchase fewer of them to reach your electricity generation goal. These high-efficiency panels tend to be more expensive, but they will save you more money each month.
There are three main types of solar panels: monocrystalline, polycrystalline andthin-film solar panels. Monocrystalline panels are typically the most efficient solar panels, but they are followed closely by polycrystalline panels.
Thin-film solar panels, commonly known as flexible solar panels, live up to their name due to their sleek, thin design and low environmental impact. Their flexibility is a perk for many uses, but they are less efficient than traditional solar panels. They’re better suited for small, off-grid applications, like solar systems on boats and trailers.
The type of solar panel you choose is only one component of your entire solar system. Other critical equipment you will need includes:
Equipment needs can also vary, like if you are deciding between a rooftop vs ground-mount panels or a grid-tie vs off-grid system. These costs are typically rolled into your solar estimate, but solar panel brands can vary on the total cost of your package.
Because solar energy is directly dependent on the amount of sun you get, the intensity of the sunlight, and your average sunny days per year, your geographic location is one of the most important factors to consider when you choose an energy system. The amount of direct sunlight you get not only affects your monthly energy savings but can also affect your payback period.
The more solar energy you produce, the larger your solar savings. For instance, a home in California is likely to need fewer solar panels (7 to 8) than a home in New York (8 to 10) — even if they have the same energy usage — because California has stronger solar potential and more days of full sunlight.
The intensity of the sunlight hitting your panels will be higher as you get closer to the equator, as well, so fewer hours of sunlight per day might end up producing more power if those hours include more intense and direct sunlight. As you can see, there are many factors that affect your expected production.
The upfront cost of a solar system can be expensive, which can be quite the deterrent for homeowners on a budget. To help the average homeowner overcome this barrier, both state and federal governments have established incentive programs to encourage homeowners to purchase solar panels.
There is currently a 30% federal solar tax credit, called an investment tax credit (ITC), available for homeowners who install residential solar panels. This tax credit can be applied alongside other local rebates and other financial incentives to help offset the initial price tag.
Your solar system cost will also depend on the net metering policy of your local utility company. Most utilities vary in their buyback rates and feed-in tariffs, but policies can have a major impact on the overall value of your solar system and solar payback period.
Some other common solar incentives offered throughout the U.S. on a state or municipality level include the following:
Your solar installer is your strongest ally and can help you find the right financing options, apply forsolar incentivesand navigate conversations with your local utility company.
There are many other factors that can cause the cost of solar panels to fluctuate, including:
The key to the perfect solar system is the right installer. When you choose atop solar installer, you are guaranteed quality equipment, access to all available incentive programs and cost-saving warranties.
To find a preferred installer, fill out the solar panel calculator above. This not only shows your potential solar savings, but will connect you to the best solar installers in your area.
In the last decade alone, solar has experienced an average annual growth rate of33%. There are now more than121 gigawatts (GW)of solar capacity installed nationwide, enough to power23.3 million homes.
The cost to install solar has dropped by more than60%over the last decade, leading the industry to expand into new markets and deploy thousands of systems nationwide.
Continued growth in state community solar programs and improvements to state and regional interconnection processes are imperative to ensure solar access for all types of homeowners and businesses.
Advertiser Disclosure
Our editorial team is committed to creating independent and objective content focused on helping our readers make informed decisions. To help support these efforts we receive compensation from companies that advertise with us.
The compensation we receive from these companies may impact how and where products appear on this site. This compensation does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides within our content. We do not include all companies, products or offers that may be available.
----------------------------------------
Title: 49% of New Buses in EU Were ‘Zero-Emission’ Models in 2024
Date: 2025-03-05T00:40:12+00:00
Content:
Founded in 2005 as an Ohio-based environmental newspaper, EcoWatch is a digital platform dedicated to publishing quality, science-based content on environmental issues, causes, and solutions.
The transition to cleaner vehicles is progressing in Europe, where49%of new city buses across EU countries in 2024 were ‘zero-emission’ models instead of fossil fuel-powered vehicles, according to a new analysis from the European Federation for Transport and Environment (T&E).
The increase beat the previous year, which found that36%of new city buses in the EU for 2023 were battery-electric. For 2024, battery-electric buses made up 46% of new EU buses, while fuel-cell models made up 3%, a faster increase than expected.
In June 2024, T&E estimated that the rate of clean vehicle adoption for city buses would reach 100% zero emissions in the sector by 2027. Based on the 2024 results, T&E reported, “At this growth rate, city buses are on track to reach fully ZE sales by 2027.”
The analysis determined two factors that have helped improve the transition toward more zero-emission buses: new European regulations established in 2024 as well as more local policies at the city-level. Fleet targets, low- and zero-emission zones, and similar actions have helped cities adopt more zero-emission vehicles. A small increase in sales, about 3% or double the rate sold in 2023, of fuel cell hydrogen buses also played a role.
Based on the rapid adoption of cleaner buses, T&E now predicts that the city bus sector will reach zero emissions faster than both the EU’s Clean Vehicles Directive — which mandates an average of about 32% zero-emissions procurement for heavy-duty vehicles for 2026 through 2030 – and theupdated carbon dioxide standardsfor trucks and buses — which requires bus sales to be 90% zero-emission vehicles by 2030 and 100% by 2035.
“For city residents, that means quieter streets and cleaner air,” T&E reported.
Although the overall outlook for clean vehicle transition is positive, T&E noted that some countries are leading these efforts while others are falling short of targets. The Netherlands, Finland and Iceland already achieved 100% battery-electric city bus sales in 2024, while Spain, which sells more than 1,000 new buses per year, reached 57% of new bus sales as zero-emission models last year.
Other leading markets include the UK, with 56% of new bus sales in 2024 as zero emissions and Italy with 44%.
One of the most impressive improvements from the 2023 reports on zero-emission EU buses happened in Estonia. According to the T&E analysis, Estonia was at the bottom of the list in 2023 for percentage of new bus sales that were zero emissions. In 2024, however, the country reached 84% of all new city bus sales as battery-electric.
This example could serve as inspiration for other countries that fell lower in the rankings for 2024, including Slovakia, Austria, Czechia, Hungary and Croatia, all of which were also considered to be slower adopters of clean buses based on T&E data from 2021 through 2024.
Still, with increasing fulfillment of zero emission buses around Europe, T&E has predicted the adoption rates will also rise in countries that are lower in recent rankings.
“If, as we predict, 2025 marks the turning point where more than half of new city buses are zero-emission, we should see the transition accelerate accordingly in trailing countries,” T&E reported.
By signing up, you agree to theTerms of UseandPrivacy Policy& to receive electronic communications from EcoWatch Media Group, which may include marketing promotions, advertisements and sponsored content.
By signing up, you agree to theTerms of UseandPrivacy Policy& to receive electronic communications from EcoWatch Media Group, which may include marketing promotions, advertisements and sponsored content.
----------------------------------------