Title: Doja Cat’s 3 2025 Oscars Looks Were Covered In Beads, Crystals, and Sequins Galore
Date: No Publication Date
Content:
Released on 03/03/2025
I'm Doja Cat and we are performing at the Oscars today.
And so I'm getting ready
and I want you to watch and I'm nervous.
A healthy amount of nervous.
It is 12:15 in the afternoon.
She needs to be ready by 3:00 PM for the carpet.
The dress is not here yet,
but I have all faith within Hollywood traffic
and Oscars madness that it will be here.
We did our final fitting last night.
It is an insane piece of couture that Balmain did.
She looks like Betty Boop.
With Amala, who's like my sister,
but then being Doja Cat
and showing up in leopard print,
I don't know if anyone else
can really pull that off beyond her.
So I'm performing Diamonds Are Forever by Sherry Bassey.
I wanted to respect the original sound
being it's from like the 70s
and so I wanted to channel her
but also give just like a essence of myself within it.
I love doing things that are not usual to me.
I'm learning how to talk as a singer.
And so I'm trying to split the difference between
being raspy and myself
and also being like this,
just giving them a little bit of warmth and tone.
It's protective towards the voice,
but without also, see, there's two different...
It's like I'm trying to find the middle ground of that.
And I feel like that voice comes with a character.
My vocal coach did suggest that I speak in a dopey tone,
so I didn't wanna scare you when he walked in
and start talking like this.
So the dresses for today have arrived.
Balmain has done two amazing custom looks for us.
The leopard print is where we're going for carpet.
It's an insane moment.
This is all hand beaded from top to bottom.
I know there was like 50 different artisans on it
that were stitching by hand all of these insane beads
and our lovely tailor here in LA has been up all evening
beating the scarf for us to go around her neck.
They had this dress that was built I think in 1957
that this was inspired by, but Olivier did his spin on it
and it has like the sweetheart neckline.
It's definitely corseted to the gods.
But yeah, it's just super special.
Amala is moving into this new album cycle that there's a bit
And so this is kind of bringing it to life,
especially with the glam.
So we were inspired by Mugatu, I'm just kidding.
I love my natural hair and I love playing with it.
I love like the shapes that it can take on.
And so I really loved the idea of sweeping it upward.
It's kind of something that's been calling me
for the last couple of months.
I'm just loving this kind of square top head shape.
And so I wanted to bring it to this
'cause I think the dress is so incredibly strong
and to kind of keep the upper head area more top
and more separate from the dress as opposed
to long trusses hanging over the dress.
I think it lets the dress stand out.
I think right off the bat, you can kind of compare it a bit
to Grace Jones and the silhouette of it.
I love that head shape, I love angular hair too.
I think like it was something maybe more prominent
in the 80s and I want to kind of play with that.
I think that can be really fun
'cause I can take my hair when it's not like this,
but like in the morning,
I can just go like that and it stays like that.
I go like this, it stays like that.
If I sweep it back, it's like very malleable
and why not take advantage?
So I have conversations with him for the most part
because hair is like hair.
It's a very defining characteristic of the body.
Makeup is depending on where you are creatively.
I think for this, me and Ivan
just wanted to be very like, elegant, sexy,
and not anything too experimental.
I think a lot of the energy is coming from the dress
Olivier did a blue version of it
that was a long sleeved a couple collections ago,
and I fell in love with it when I saw it then.
But when this opportunity came up for Oscars,
it's a really special moment for her.
This being her first time going to Oscars,
looking like a female version
of the Oscar made me quite excited.
So this is what she's wearing after the show.
It's, again, an insane amount of bead work
that there was multiple people in the 40s
is what I remember hand beading this.
And then at the bottom,
there's a fringe, there's a fabric fringe,
and then there's a beaded fringe.
there's a lot of beautiful movement to it.
We have some very amazing pieces from Messika
and this necklace has not been worn yet
and it's super special.
It's like, I don't wanna say how many carats it is,
but it's a canary diamond and it's insane.
It's always experimenting in the end
because we don't get jewelry kind of till the last second,
just for insurance reasons.
But I want to try it with the dress.
But they did this really beautiful scarf
that just adds to that like classic elegance on the carpet
that feels like it's an accessory enough.
When we get to the dressing, we'll find out.
All right, Vogue, I'm done with makeup and hair
and we are gonna move on to getting dressed.
It's really, really, really special.
You look incredibly stunning, I want to cry.
I know that this is honoring Barbara Broccoli tonight.
So I mean, it's an honor for me really
that I get to do this.
It really is a classic
and a perfect series of films
that I really am very grateful.
She's gonna be a Bond girl.
I hope she enjoys it.
Okay, he wants me to be a Bond girl.
I'm down, but I don't know what that entails.
But yes, I hope they enjoy it.
I hope everybody at the Bond Industries enjoys that.
That's a wrap and I am going
to go perform now for the Oscars.
Wish me luck and thanks again, Vogue, for everything.
©2025Condé Nast. All rights reserved.Voguemay earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.Ad Choices
----------------------------------------
Title: A Day—and Night—in the Life of Dimitri Dimitrov, Hollywood’s Most Famous Maître D’
Date: 2025-03-03T22:04:37.091Z
Content:
There are obvious centers of power: business headquarters, movie studios, government buildings. Then there are the places where power is wielded quietly—the rooms where ideas are born over martinis, business deals brought up over Barolos, and networking is verboten, but deeper conversations are very much in vogue. And in Los Angeles that place is Tower Bar.
The restaurant inside the near-century-old Sunset Tower has long been the preferred evening playground of Hollywood’s power players—not just for A-list celebrities (although there are plenty of those, with regulars including Mick Jagger and Jennifer Aniston) but the studio heads, superagents, and other invisible hands that guide the multibillion-dollar entertainment industry. In a 1947 letter, Truman Capote described the Sunset Tower as “a very posh establishment” where “every scandal that ever happened happened.” Not much has changed.
A window table at Tower Bar
At the heart of it all is Dimitri Dimitrov, the 75-year-old maître d’. He oversees the room’s intricate choreography every evening—the reservations, the seating chart, the VIPs, the walk-ins,the drama—in an Armani blazer and Timex watch given to him by Bill Murray. Known for his attention to detail and charming Moldovan accent, Dimitrov is so beloved by the powers that be in Hollywood that he’s become one of them: In 2022 he played a maître d’ inDon’t Worry Darling, and in September 2024The Hollywood Reporterannounced that a documentary about him wasin the works. “In a town where gossip is the coin of the realm, Mr. Dmitrov is a sphinxlike figure who knows everything and says nothing,”read a 2011 profile of DimitrovinThe New York Times. “And, like Erich von Stroheim inSunset Boulevard,his loyalty to his fragile industry charges is fierce and absolute.”
So this Oscars weekend,Vogueasked Dimitrov to give us a day in his life. It starts with coffee—and dozens of calls asking for reservations—and ends with a seating chart. Below, read everything that happens in between.
I get six and a half hours of sleep. On a weekend, maybe half an hour more. But if I only have three or four hours of sleep, I feel it. I’m not good. I’m irritated, so I’m not as good. It’s a very slow waking up.
By 12, I’m having my coffee. There are already dozens of incoming calls to try to make reservations. I see what we can do on the floor plan with timing, quantity, and table, who we can accommodate.
I’ll be making probably 6 to 12 calls to various important clients. And I’ll tell them that the reservation is confirmed. If there are little changes—they would like a reservation at 7:30, say—I’ll tell them, “Can you please come half an hour earlier? We’re looking forward to serving you.” In a very humble way.
I like them to know thatI’mtexting. Even if I make a spelling mistake, that’s fine with me because it lets them know that’s me texting back. This goes from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m., answering the phone.
I’m just getting ready. There is no shower, it’s a bath. If I was a plumber or, oh my God, an electrician, maybe I’d have a fast shower. But with what I do, it’s not a fast shower—it’s a good bath.
I arrive at 4:15. [The hostesses] have already printed out the reservations on paper. They help me with the table assignments.
[There are some tables] for privacy and conversation or romantic couples. [The one] that overlooks the piano and bass player—that’s Tom Ford’s table [if] he’s in town. There’s a table in the cove for four people. Very important people who would like to discuss business will get that one. They don’t like to be in a scene.
Those front tables are for younger clientele who really like to see and be seen, just to soak up the vibe of the place.
Then I prepare the restaurant. I’m mostly concerned about table settings, the symmetry, the cleanliness of the place. The look of the presentation of the room is so important. My signature quality is mise en place, a French term for preparing for the service and restaurant. That’s what I excel in.
Tower Bar is a historic space. The building has a historic Hollywood background. My job is to keep it in the best physical condition—neat, clean, and presentable.
Early reservations are coming at 6, 6:15, 6:30. [On Saturday night], we had to accommodate Emma Stone earlier because they were going somewhere. We don’t do that often, but that was an exception, to open the restaurant a little bit earlier. I adore her.
As soon as people come, they will announce their names to the hostesses. But I already know their name. I know even the table assigned. But still, the hostess likes to know who is seated and who is with me already. So as soon as they announce, I just take them.
I greet them the most politely I can. That first impression is important. And then I’m walking with them. They see the restaurant, how it’s beautifully done.
Then I have a little small chat: “How is your evening?” They will tell me they are going somewhere else afterward or they’re staying with us. This information is important. Indirectly I will find out—is this a business meeting? Do they want a quieter table or loud? [If they say] “Dimitri…this is business business,” immediately, I change the location to a table in the back. So this is a situation where nothing is written in stone. Even when the tables are assigned, everything is fluid and changes at the last moment, depending on the desires of the guest.
The restaurant, from Thursday and Friday, you could feel the Oscar [buzz] in the room. [On Saturday night,] we did a Netflix party on a terrace. It’s not only the actors but also the agents from CAA and UTA.
Thursday, Friday, that was more martini drinking, celebration. Saturday, yesterday, the talent left early and they were not drinking because they will be working Sunday. They will be at the Oscars presentation.
Interaction with the clients is very polite, very kind—but very short, even with some guests who I have known for years and years. I would love to talk. [But] I pull back because I like to be really focused on everything, what’s going on with the dining.
Vogue:Do you ever sit down?
At 11, the last orders are going to the kitchen. At 11:30, the kitchen is asking me what I would like for my dinner. It can be sea bass, salmon, or shrimp, but always with lots of vegetables and salad.
From midnight onward, I’m still on the floor but just more relaxed. Everything is relaxed, people linger, having an after-dinner drink, and it’s quietening down in the dining room. Before the hostess goes home, we check tomorrow’s reservations on the computer. I’m already identifying the layout of the floor plan for the next day.
I like each night to be memorable to our guests. That memory hopefully lingers on—and hopefully they might even remember the night forever.
This interview has been edited and condensed for clarity.
----------------------------------------
Title: Isabella Rossellini Used Fashion to Pay Tribute to David Lynch and Her Mother at the 2025 Oscars
Date: 2025-03-02T23:22:54.241Z
Content:
WhenDavid Lynchdied in January,Isabella Rossellinipaid tribute to him on Instagram,writing, “I loved him so much.” Today, at the2025 Oscars, she used fashion to celebrate the director.
While she’s nominated for best supporting actress for her role as Sister Agnes inConclave, Rossellini is looking back to the start of her career: her breakthrough role in Lynch’s 1986 film,Blue Velvet.(While Rossellini also starred in Lynch’s 1990 film,Wild at Heart,their relationship reached beyond the professional: They dated for five years, between 1987 and 1991.) So it was only fitting that Dolce & Gabbana help Rossellini honor the director in a blue velvet dress.
“I made a film in 1986 with David Lynch calledBlue Velvetand I wore a blue velvet robe; it was a Bobby Vinton song,” Rossellini tellsVogue.“We had the idea with Stefano Gabbana and [Domenico] Dolce for the dress. Their clothes always tells stories–their references to the Catholic church, Italian Cinema. Even sometimes vegetable like basil–like Italian cuisine. They like to tell stories. When we discussed the outfit for the Oscars, David had just passed away, we decided we were going to honor him with the dress. ABlue Velvetdress!”
The tribute wasn’t limited to fashion—Rossellini walked the carpet withLaura Dern, a fellow Lynch muse and her co-star inBlue VelvetandWild at Heart.Dern, who is filming a movie in New York, flew in the night before the Oscars and left on the red-eye flight following the ceremony in order to make her 7 a.m. call time Monday morning. “Laura and I became very good friends duringBlue Velvetand we were both very close to David. So I ask Laura to be my plus-one and she was delighted,” Rossellini says. “I am very grateful to her.” Dern adds, “It was an honor to be the date of a legend, my gorgeous brilliant friend, Isabella to the Academy Awards on behalf of her nomination. I know we both feel privileged to sit side by side in tribute to our beloved David Lynch and all he has given art, cinema, and humanity.”
Ingrid Bergman at the 1975 Oscars where she took home the award forMurder on the Orient Express.Her daughter, Isabella Rossellini, wore the same earrings to the 2025 Oscars.
The blue velvet Dolce & Gabbana dress isn’t the only sartorial nod Rossellini made with her Oscars look. Along with her Bvlgari high jewelry, she wears earrings that father, Roberto Rossellini, bought for her mother, Ingrid Bergman. “I wanted to be dressed by all Italian designers because I am Italian! Also my father loved Bvlgari as they were in Rome. And when he could afford it, he would buy the jewelry for my mother,” Rossellini says. “They lent me exquisite jewelry but I added the earrings that my father bought my mother. She wore them in the filmTrip to Italyin 1954 and Mama wore them often at the Oscars when she won for Murder on The Orient Express–her third Oscar in the same category I was nominated in!”
It has been an especially emotional awards season for the actor. The day she was nominated for the Academy Award, shewroteon Instagram: “When I was young, I was always identified as the daughter of Ingrid Bergman and Roberto Rossellini. As I’ve gotten older, this doesn’t happen as frequently and I miss it especially today. I wish my parents were alive to celebrate with me this great honor. And also today with this joy in my mind can’t help lingering in the beyond to David Lynch.”
While it may be a bittersweet moment, Isabella Rossellini is using poignant fashion choices to carry on the memory of her loved ones. Below, the actor takesVogueinside her 2025 Oscars night.
See every look from the2025 Oscars Red Carpet:
----------------------------------------
Title: Ballet Pink Is Spring 2025’s Chicest Accessory Trend
Date: 2025-03-06T15:55:00Z
Content:
Every item on this page was chosen by anELLEeditor. We may earn commission on some of the items you choose to buy.
This delicate hue is our latest obsession.
Withspringaround the corner, it’s no surprise that pastel-leaning shades were leading the season’s runway trends. But there’s one particular shade that surprisingly stood out most: ballet pink.
There were plenty of designers that were thinking pink for 2025, especially the Italian luxury house of Ferragamo. Creative director Maximilian Davis celebrated the brand’s heritage by drawing inspiration from its legacy of designing customballet flatsfor stars like Katherine Dunham, Marilyn Monroe, and Audrey Hepburn. The collection presented knitted wrap-overs and their classic pumps, reimagined with laced-up ribbons in the blushing hue, of course.
Similarly, Simone Rocha’s spring/summer show in London showcased a mesmerizing array of tutus, ballerina flats, and flowing tulle. And the list of rose-toned runway inspiration goes on and on.
Petal tones are standing out this season–and for good reason. Softer pinks act as versatile neutrals–they suit most complexions and will effortlessly add warmth to your look without drawing attention away from the rest of your outfit. Try this season’s must-have trend by accessorizing with tasteful, subdued hues that will add the perfect pop of color to any look.
For those who always ask, “Does it come in pink?”–consider this your curated edit.
Soft Pink Bags to Covet
Cotton candy-hued bags are ruling the Paris runways this season– Georges Hobeika unveiled a top-handle with a sculptural metallic rose andElie Saabhighlighted a sparkling clutch studded in rose-colored crystals.
I’m forever drawn to a blush bag, and these choices exude feminine elegance.
Shell pink is the new nude. In Paris, Balmain and Chloé showcased lace-up and satin styles, while in Milan, The Attico unveiled a heel with strappy ballet-inspired details. You can pair a pale rose pump with other pastel colors for a cohesive spring look, or allow the hue to stand out against an all-black outfit.
Carnation-Tinted Jewelry
Blossom-toned jewelry instantly adds elegance to any outfit. A rose quartz ring is ideal for everyday wear, while a string of pink pearls beautifully complements a silk black cocktail dress. If you’re looking for romantic and sophisticated pieces to enhance your collection, we’ve curated five blush-hued options that are sure to become favorites in yourjewelry box.
Accessorizing with a belt is the quickest way to define a waist, break up a monochromatic ensemble, and add interest to a minimalistic outfit. Play up your look by wearing a peony belt with a high-waisted dark-washjeanor over a relaxedsweater dressfor a cinched silhouette.
Petal-Toned Hair Accessories
Lotus-pink hair accessories arethechic upgrade your hairstyles need. Wear a plush rose scrunchie to elevate a messy bun or a chunky headband for a preppy look. You can easily add a soft, romantic touch to a half-upstylewith a delicate bow and glamorize a sleekponytailwith a crystal barrette. These options will look incredible on every hair color and texture.
Every product featured on ELLE.com is independently researched, tested, or editor-approved. We only recommend products that we stand behind, and the merchandise featured on our site is always driven by editorial and product testing standards, not by affiliate deals or advertising relationships. Any content created in partnership with advertisers is marked as such.
ELLE Editors’ Favorite Sneakers Under $150
The Controversial Pants Replacing Baggy Jeans
4 Spring Jacket Trends That Cool Girls Love
5 Shoe Trends That Are Key This Spring
8 Handbags Katie Holmes Is Convincing Me to Buy
14 Reasons to Invest in a Clay Mask Right Now
The Timeless Knitwear Style Trending at NYFW
See Reactions to Kendrick Lamar’s Halftime Show
The Universal Red Lipsticks ELLE Editors Swear By
Cool Girl-Approved Accessories to Shop This Spring
The Under-$250 Jewels Taylor Swift Loves
11 Best Face Razors for At-Home Dermaplaning
A Part of Hearst Digital Media
We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back.
©2025 Hearst Magazine Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
----------------------------------------
Title: Lady Gaga Makes SomeMayhem
Date: 2025-01-28T11:00:00Z
Content:
Every item on this page was chosen by anELLEeditor. We may earn commission on some of the items you choose to buy.
Her highly anticipated new album channels pure musical chaos. But at home with fiancé Michael Polansky, Mother Monster has found a new sense of calm and normalcy.
Here’s the thing: Lady Gaga doesn’t want to talk about herself. She will, because that’s what’s been asked of her throughout a 20-year-long career spanning music (13 Grammys), film (four Oscar nominations, one win), television (four Emmy nominations), fashion (where to start!), and her very own beauty range (Haus Labs). And she’ll answer my questions with a disarming vulnerability and level of self-reflection. But, she admits toward the end of our afternoon together at her record label in London, “I can’t tell you how much I wanted to ask you questions, too, this whole time. You have no idea how unnatural it is to meet someone and not be able to ask them about themselves. I don’t want to ruin the interview time for you, but I also want to give to people who give to me.”
And it’s this that I find so surprising about meeting the icon, the idea, the moment, or, as she refers to herself at one point, “the product” that is Lady Gaga in person. Before me is a petite woman with artfully disheveled auburn hair and little makeup, wearing a vintage lace dress, oversize biker jacket, and ankle boots. She’s funny, self-deprecating, warm, and comfortingly present. I can’t help but wonder what dark arts, what spell it is that transforms her into such a terrifyingly brilliant powerhouse of a performer.
She’s gearing up for the release of her seventh album, after what fans (a.k.a. Monsters) might consider creative detours, but she feels are all part of the same journey—an album of jazz standards with Tony Bennett, andHarlequin, a companion to theJokersequel,Folie à Deux. The appetite for this record is huge. Her last pop album,Chromatica, dropped at the height of the pandemic and missed out on the hype it deserved. So the Monsters are hangry. I’m here to tell them that her latest album,Mayhem, is a feast.
She moves from the sofa where we’ve been chatting to a chair by a mixing board, to play me the new songs. This is a moment a million Monsters would kill for, and once my gay panic subsides, I’m taking it all in. Gaga bounces in her seat, stomps her black boots, and seems as excited to be listening to it as I am. I cannot wait to be at a club surrounded by my queer friends dancing to this record. It’s euphoric, like a sharp inhale. I feel it in my chest, my heart. “We need this!” I tell her. She smiles, sweetly relieved that I love it.
The sound is hard to pin down. She describes one track as a “happy apocalyptic tune” and says her influences include “’90s alternative, electro-grunge, Prince and Bowie melodies, guitar and attitude, funky bass lines, French electronic dance, and analog synths.” From a genre perspective, she says, “Mayhemis utter chaos!” She adds the record "just feels good to me. It sounds good. It breaks a lot of rules and has a lot of fun.”
When making music Gaga sees a wall of color—a phenomenon known as synesthesia. “As I’m writing, it assembles in my brain, then through the recording it becomes a full piece of color,” she says. “Every song is a different shade. A lot of the songs on this album have a maroon, brown color to them. ‘Bad Romance’ was like that—it was reddish.”
I ask how she knows if a song is going to be a hit. “There are great records that I make that will have their moment of completion and I’ll go,it’s not a hit, but I love it,” she says. “Other records, I’ll just know that it has everything it needs. A hit is very powerful at conveying that the energy in the artist is going to get transferred into the listener.”
Whereas in the past Gaga might have approached a new album with a fully formed idea of the work she’s about to make, knowing what it’s going to be called and even what the art will look like, with this, she tells me “I was actually pretty hard on myself about not walking into the studio with any preconceived ideas that I was going to strangle onto.Mayhemis about following your own chaos into whatever cranny of your life that it takes you to. And in that way, it was about following the songs. Writing as many songs as I did for this album was a labour of total love. And then you just have to be very cutthroat by the end.”
She confesses that, up until now, she had always felt it was her stage name, Gaga, that created the music. Now she recognizes that “it came from me. I’m the creator and I made all of it, and that helped me to value myself as a musician and a songwriter in a deeper way.” I ask if this realization means she might drop the stage name. She looks aghast at the suggestion (phew!) and rushes to say, “No! I love being Lady Gaga. I love being me. I just mean that I became a star when I was 20. Everything gets reflected back to you that this persona is what makes you special.”
We talk about this separation of public and private self and how it has affected her over two decades. She admits to having “a broken feeling” about some of the mental health issues she has had in her life. “I feel some embarrassment, and that’s a very vulnerable thing to share. But I think through making this album, I was able to really love myself through all of that. Confronting the music was a way of confronting some of the things I’ve been through and saying, ‘It’s okay that’s who you are.’ And celebrating that about myself, instead of trying to pretend it’s not real.”
She tells me that makingMayhemwas a process of rediscovery. “The chaos I thought was long gone is fully intact and ready to greet me whenever I’d like. Part of the message of even the first song on the album is that your demons are with you in the beginning and they are with you in the end, and I don’t mean it in a bleak way. Maybe we can make friends sooner with this reality instead of running all the time.”
I wonder if embracing the darkness inside rather than trying to kill it with the artificial brightness of a spotlight has allowed Gaga to let in something softer, more natural, closer to sunshine. She’s valuing the small moments at home with her friends, her dogs, and her fiancé, Michael Polansky, as much as, if not more than, the performances. “Everyday poetry,” she calls it. She explains that even though the “Disease” video is so dark in a way, the process of creating it wasn’t painful. “It was easier to make it [once she was at peace with the darkness]. It felt really fun and celebratory. Like throwing a party for all your demons.“
After the interview, Gaga introduces me to Polansky, a 41-year-old venture capitalist. Gaga’s mother set the pair up after meeting him at a charity event and telling her daughter, “I’ve met your future husband.” Polansky has a kind face and a gentle energy. He also reads as completely un-celebrity-coded (despite being a multimillionaire himself), more like a good-looking dad you might chat with at the school drop-off.
“What did you think of the music?” he asks me, proudly wrapping an arm around his wife-to-be. He grins when I say that I love it and then laughs, because it’s not as if he made it.
“You helped me loads, though,” Gaga says, staring lovingly up at him. “You helped write, like, seven songs!”
Later, Polansky and I talk on the phone. He says: “It’s been one of the most incredible parts of this chapter of my life, to live with and coexist alongside someone making art and being creative in ways that very few people get to experience. I think of myself as really lucky to have been there for it.” He’s loved watching her evolve in the years they’ve known each other, and particularly he says, “return to finding a lot of joy in making art, performing, and writing music.”
“This album was so much fun to watch her make,” he adds. “She recorded it right down the street from our house, so we could easily walk back and forth from the studio. I spent a lot of time with her, bringing my laptop to work while she was there. What surprised me most was how fast she is. I couldn’t believe how quickly a song would take shape. Within five minutes, 80 percent of the song would have come from nothing.”
I’m interested in what it’s like navigating a relationship with someone so famous. “Accepting that you won’t have the privacy others might have was the hardest part,” he says. “But Stefani’s comfort with it and patience with me has been amazing. Our relationship is probably a lot like everyone else’s. We just have to figure out how to do some of it in public. That makes it even more important for us to have strong friendships and close family relationships. We find normalcy where we can.”
With Polansky, Gaga’s life has a different shade to it; it’s more wholesome. “He used to say to me when we first met, ‘You are a special human being when the cameras aren’t on you. And I get to see that all the time,’” she tells me.
They love to host at their L.A. home. “We make pasta together; we roast things. We also really like making simple dishes with Michael’s mom, who lives nearby.” It’s no secret that Gaga gets on well with older people (“I loved Tony Bennett”) and calls her own mother one of her best friends, alongside Michael’s mother, Ellen. “She and I have built our friendship by sharing our life experiences with each other. It’s about the way we grew up, being a woman in the workplace, what her experience was like and what mine is like, and kind of tracking different generations.”
She tells me a story. “A while ago my friend Margo was over, and we were talking about lots of things, but at some point I showed her the ‘Disease’ video, and she was smiling. And then she said to me, ‘You know, this girl’”—that is, the one violently writhing around while chained to a pole, and the bloody-eyed, latex-clad demon puking up black bile—“‘well, she also makes great broccoli.’ It was a really sweet moment where somebody that I love and care about knows that as much as I wanted her to like my video, making her dinner was the number one joy of my evening.”
Joy. There’s a lot more of it in her life these days. She’s finding it in “real conversations, real relationships, the authentic stories that we share with each other. I think there’s an element of ‘Fake it till you make it’ all the time in life…but I also believe in being real, with yourself and with people around you. And I think, sometimes, when we have those real conversations, we can feel less alone.”
We meet six days after the results of the American election are announced. Mayhem has been unleashed on a global political stage—no one could accuse Gaga of not reading the room. “What’s bizarre is I did not write this album thinking that this would happen. I prayed it would not. But here we are.”
Gaga endorsed Kamala Harris. She also performed at Biden’s inauguration in 2021, which she has previously called one of the proudest moments of her life.
I ask how she’s been feeling. “The main thing is I have so much compassion and love for so many people who are afraid today. I want to acknowledge that I’m a very blessed person, and I feel grateful for so much in my life every day. I know for a lot of people, this election was devastating for their existence, so community is going to be the number one thing. I am one of many people who support the [LGBTQ and other marginalized] communities. And we’re not going down without a fight. We will stick together. It’s going to be hard, but I’m up for it. We’re up for it. And I just want everyone to know how deeply they’re loved and not invisible.”
The music industry has changed so much since Lady Gaga released her first album,The Fame, in 2008: social media, streaming, and, finally, music’s own #MeToo moment, with some high-profile people being held accountable for their abuse of power. Right now, pop is celebrating strong women solo artists like never before and giving them the space to be themselves. Billie Eilish, Chappell Roan, Sabrina Carpenter, Charli XCX—“They’re amazing,” Gaga says. “They’re strong and vibrant and creative and artistic. I think they’re being celebrated because they’re wonderful.”
If she could tell these younger pop artists anything, “it would be that the whole you matters. Who you are at home is just as valuable as who you are when you’re onstage. And no matter what anyone says to you, you can value who you are outside of all of this.”
She takes a beat then adds, “I’ve been in this business for years. Being a woman and a product at the same time was really exhausting.”
The artwork for the new album plays with this duality, but it’s not as simple as public and private, good and bad, light and dark—it is about what she calls a “radical acceptance” of all of it—of the mayhem. She says she’s “having a lot of fun exploring imagery that is different from things that I’ve done before. Things that used to really scare me are now really exciting.”
“Well, playing with transgressive and challenging themes that make me think of my own anxiety. I couldn’t do that for a really long time. And now it’s just what I naturally want to do. It’s interesting that I could go through a period of being afraid as a person and wanting nothing to do with those themes and then feeling good now and being like, ‘Let’s do all this dark stuff.’”
The concept of radical acceptance comes up a lot during our chat, and feels key to the message she wants to convey about who she is and how she feels about her life and art right now. “I’m not going to torture myself,” she says. “I’m going to celebrate. I used to drink a lot and smoke a lot, and I was always looking for an out. I used to call it the trapdoor. I used to be like, ‘I need an escape route.’ And I stopped doing that. And I actually started feeling it. Being present. As an artist, it’s hard to go through that and not want to share that with my fans.”
We talk about failure, not a word I associate with the megastar. ButJoker: Folie à Deuxhas had mixed reviews. “People just sometimes don’t like some things,” she says matter-of-factly. “It’s that simple. And I think to be an artist, you have to be willing for people to sometimes not like it. And you keep going even if something didn’t connect in the way that you intended.” She adds that the fear of failure is what can be really damaging: “When that makes its way into your life, that can be hard to get control of. It’s part of the mayhem.”
Embracing demons, darkness, nightmares, and the sprawling id that bubbles just below the surface in all of us reminds Gaga of her love for Alexander McQueen, Isabella Blow, and Daphne Guinness: “There are amazing artists throughout history who had a relationship to dark poetry as a way of feeling alive.” But for Gaga, there were several years when she lost track of where the darkness began and ended. “It was everywhere all the time. And that was not a sustainable life.”
“So now, the darkness is more specific or channeled?” I ask. “Yeah, channel it in the music and onstage, but then in my life…”
“You’re making the broccoli?”
It remains to be seen just how being in this new place will affect Gaga’s style and approach to fashion. On the ELLE shoot, she brought her own looks from home to try out and she’s not about to stop having fun with the more outlandish costumes we love her for—in fact, the eponymous character ofMayhemwho haunts this album and drives the car in the ‘Disease’ video presents ample opportunities to play with gothic subversion. But, Gaga tells me, “I’m just trying to feel as in my skin as possible and not like I’m performing all the time.”
She adds, “I feel really at ease about fashion and clothes. For me, I’m at a place in my life where I just want to feel like myself in clothes. Whatever that means. So if that’s changing, I just want to go with that feeling.”
Most recently, she’s been wearing a lot of baby doll dresses, because she’s become fascinated with porcelain dolls. “They’re so fragile. And they’re beautiful too.” She used to be scared of them, and we agree they’re pretty freaky, but as with so many things now she’s leaning into that old fear and reclaiming it.
Family has always been a steadying force for Gaga. But now, for the first time, she’s considering starting her own with Michael. “Family—it’s like the roots of the tree,” she says. “They grow long, and sometimes they’re mangled, and sometimes they’re full of water, and sometimes they’re thirsty. Family is what makes you who you are, and it also defines your need for change.”
“If you were to have a child,” I ask, “what would you want them to understand about you as an artist and also as a person as they grew up?”
It’s not an easy question, but she has a thoughtful answer: “I would want my children to understand that whatever my artistry means to them is totally up to them. I would never actually want to shape it or tell them how to think about me. Maybe other than that I just did my best. And tried to stay true to myself along the way. That’s something Michael and I have talked about a lot—allowing our kids to be their own people. It’s such an intense thing for kids coming into the world. And they’re told how to think and what to believe in and how to eat…I just kind of want to let my kids find out who they are.’” Unless, she jokes, they want to work in entertainment.
“My kid might one day say, ‘Mom, why do you do these things? I saw a funny video of you dressed up.’ Most certainly that will happen. And you know, maybe it’s okay to say, ‘What do you think?’”
As a parent to a 6-year-old myself, I warn Gaga that kids will bring you down to earth with a thud. In fact, I go as far as to show her a note my daughter has written to the pop star on hearing that I will be interviewing her on Saturday afternoon, and not taking her to the toy shop as planned. “Lady Gaga,” it reads in pink pen. “I like you, but your [sic] not the best.”
Yep, I say, kids are endlessly humbling. Gaga thinks the note is hilarious. “Oh, I’m ready,” she says, folding the scrap of paper and putting it in her jacket pocket for those moments, we laugh, when she’s getting too big for her boots.
I’m so pleased Gaga has a great sense of humor—not least because that note could have really backfired otherwise. I take the opportunity to ask if she has a favorite meme of herself. “I likebus, club, another clubbecause it’s me saying something about how hard I work, but it comes across in this really funny way. So, there’s something good at the heart of it.”
Lady Gaga is just two years away from 40. So what is she most interested in understanding about herself today?
“This is going to be the most weird answer. I’d actually like things to be less about me. I really want to be there for people around me as much as I can. That’s the thing that makes me the most happy. That doesn’t mean I don’t want to be an artist. But I think the thing I’d like in my forties is to discover all the ways I can show up better for people in my life. All the ways that I can create positivity and joy. Music’s just one way that I do it.”
For Gaga, a full life in the not-too-distant future will involve “me and Michael and our kids,” she states without a shadow of a doubt. “Sometimes I worry people will say I’m boring these days, but honestly, thank God I’m boring. Thank God! Because I was living on the edge. I don’t know what was going to happen to me living that way. So the fact that I have these answers, on the one hand, I’m like, ‘Oh man, snooze fest!’ But actually, I’m so grateful. Because I found a sense of happiness and joy that is true to me.”
Hair by Akki Shirakawa at Art Partner; makeup by Frankie Boyd at Streeters; manicure by Miho Okawara; produced by Dana Brockman at Viewfinders.
This story appears in the February 2025 issue of ELLE.
GET THE LATEST ISSUE OF ELLE
A Part of Hearst Digital Media
We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back.
©2025 Hearst Magazine Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
----------------------------------------
Title: Rebecca Minkoff Is Ready forRHONY. IsRHONYReady for Her?
Date: 2024-09-23T12:00:00Z
Content:
Every item on this page was chosen by anELLEeditor. We may earn commission on some of the items you choose to buy.
For the fashion maven, doing reality TV is just good business—and a chance to bring her eponymous label “back to its glory.”
I expected Rebecca Minkoff to be weirder. After the announcement that the fashion mogul-cum-social activist would be joiningThe Real Housewives of New York City, I felt certain that Bravo was courting a bread-and-butter eccentric type who might add some zhuzh to the cast entering its sophomore outing on the beloved reality TV series. TheHousewivesbehemoth (which spans nine American franchises in some state of production) is, after all, known for exploring what happens when a group of self-possessed women move through the world, and toward one another, with blustering moxie as their primary fuel source. It’sMad Maxin its propensity for conflict, but with diamond-studded Miu Miu poplin shirts as the weapon of choice. It manages to repeatedly generate friction and smooth it over with the promise of a resolution, even if done through clenched teeth. Surely Rebecca Minkoff, a staple of the New York City style scene of the early aughts, whose brand first skyrocketed in popularity thanks to a fortuitous Jenna Elfman appearance onThe Tonight Show with Jay Lenoin 2001, would fit in well here. That’s, of course, the hope and the gamble.
In person, Minkoff appears in pointed contrast toRHONY’s proclivity for ostentatious displays of wealth. Perhaps for that reason, she will star as a “friend” of the housewives, rather than a housewife herself. She’s wearing a vintage Pearl Jam T-shirt (“I have a rule that I’ll only wear a band shirt if I like the band”), studded jeans, and studded Birkenstocks to match. She embodies what I imagine the Olsen twins would have aged into if they had kept the boho-chic aesthetic instead of ditching it forstealth wealth. “I have a mischievous side, but it’s never mean-spirited, and I don’t take myself that seriously,” she tells me. “I think people see ‘NYC designer, perfect Instagram imagery,’ but I’m really how you see me now: relaxed, casual. I love to have fun, and I love to laugh.”
We’re seated at a long table in her showroom in midtown Manhattan, a stone’s throw from Bryant Park, surrounded by rows and rows of shoes, bags, and other accessories that convey a business on the upswing from the economic fallout of the pandemic in 2020. “Pre-COVID, we were approaching $70 million in sales, and I watched 70 percent of that evaporate,” Minkoff says. The alluring incentive of brand exposure makes a lot of sense for a company that, as she says, was “barely making it through” during the pandemic. Now, as her namesake label approaches its 20th anniversary this spring, she’s looking to reframe the conversation. Sure, she’s gotthe book,the podcast, and a devoted legion of influencers behind her moto belt, but the show presents the chance to highlight the other side of her. “Why wouldn’t I take that opportunity, as a business decision, to say, ‘Let’s get back in front of my customer and regrow [the brand] back to its glory?’” And what better megaphone thanHousewives, which, for a certain set, is practically a litmus test for staying relevant?
Minkoff is no stranger to Bravo, having styled Heidi Klum for the first season ofProject Runwayand Padma Lakshmi forTop Chef, experiences she wrote about in her 2021 bookFearless: The New Rules for Unlocking Creativity, Courage, and Success. She went on to appear as a guest judge on several episodes ofProject Runwayas well. This is familiar territory, then—a homecoming, in a sense. But Minkoff’s pronouncement that “as a proponent of women…I [am] not interested in getting into messy, crazy drama” attitude might explain why fellow housewife Sai De Silva got caught on a hot mic this past May calling Minkoff “boring”—the second-worst thing you can call a housewife, after “dirty low-down monkey with a wig on.” Minkoff references last season’s “cheese-gate”—a minor kerfuffle over a charcuterie board—as the kind of theatrics she doesn’t mind participating in, stressing that she was particular about what she’d wade into.
“When thinking about it, I was like, ‘The only way I can do this is by being me,’” she says. “And if no one likes that, then I get voted off the island. I have to go in there holding true to everything I’ve built, otherwise I look like a fraud on both sides, and you don’t know who I am and you lose trust. It is not lost on me that there’s a huge irony in that, but I think there’s a way to play in that, too. You’ve met my friends [on the show] who have things to fight about. Do you need another person doing that? Or would it be nice to have someone being like, ‘Can’t we all just get along?’” That’s all well and good, but this is a show predicated on conflict and tension. So why cast her? “It’s all fake,” a former Minkoff employee toldAir Mailin June of this year, in reference to how she presents herself as a designer. And thus the intrigue (and contradiction?) of the woman behind the brand. Two diverging roads: You pick which one to go down.
At first glance, she’s an unusual hire for the franchise. Minkoff is, after all, a well-known creative, having landed onFortune’s 40 Under 40 list a decade ago, the same year that her company surpassed $100 million in sales. Her bags were an early-aughts staple, papped ad nauseam in images of Lindsay Lohan, Halle Berry, and more carrying the bag around town. Blake Lively even toted one while filmingGossip Girl. Minkoff’s presence on the show feels…random. But when you look at the pedigree, it’s actually quite formulaic. Carole Radziwill, a cast member onRHONYfor six seasons, was aNew York Timesbest-selling author before joining the show; Eileen Davidson, who starred onBeverly Hillsfor three seasons, had won two Daytime Emmy Awards before that.
And then there’s Minkoff’s co-star, Jenna Lyons, who kick-started a new chapter of her career, a false-lash brand called LoveSeen, thanks to the show’s exposure. (“We saw growth of about 400 percent,” shetoldGlossy.) That, Minkoff is the first to admit, was an incentivizing factor in agreeing to do the show. But there’s also the curiosity about the unknown. “I said to my husband the day I signed on, ‘I can predict our life if we don’t do this, but I can’t predict our life if we do, and that’s exciting.’” His response: “You’re fucking crazy…but okay.”
On paper, Minkoff’s story actually feels quiteHousewives-coded. She moved to New York City with no money or college degree and found a low-paying internship at Craig Taylor, a small clothing company, and began to slowly work her way up the ladder. She’s both a successful entrepreneur and a mother of four, plus she has the name recognition to make her, upon examination, exactly the kind of person you’d cast on this show, especially as the series works to cement its status as a successful reboot. (The show, which began airing in 2008, went dark in September 2021 after 13 seasons, only to return nearly two years later, in 2023, with an entirely new cast—a first for the franchise.)
Minkoff was born in San Diego, California, the daughter of David Minkoff, an MD, and self-described “alternative health care expert,” and Sue Minkoff, a nurse. “I thought I was going to be there my whole life, as a little surfer.” The family, including Rebecca’s two brothers, relocated to Clearwater, Florida, in 1989, where her father was planning to take a sabbatical from his pediatric business. But, she says, after “one pivotal trip back to San Diego,” where her brother’s friends were starting to get into drugs, her parents decided to stick it out in Clearwater—where there was “nothing happening but old people and the beach.” Growing up, Scientology, or her “applied religious philosophy,” as she calls it, has helped her “deal with the stress of the industry, with being better at communicating, and dealing with difficult personalities. It starts and ends there for me,” she says. Pressed about why she thinks there’s so much fascination with celebrity Scientologists, she offers this: “Judaism is nearly 4,000 years old, Christianity around 2,000 years, so look at what it took for those to become established…[Scientology] is new. And I think new breeds curiosity and misconception, and that’s why I can only tell you what I’ve gotten out of it, which is a source of stress relief.” Although Scientology has been the subject of public interest and controversy over the years,Housewives, Minkoff mentions, is not the arena where she felt inclined to share more on this.
But back to the origin story! It was during her early days in Clearwater that Minkoff took up sewing, even going on to make her own Bat Mitzvah dress. It’s a somewhat familiar refrain in the fashion industry (her co-star Lyons has a similar story): A young woman can’t find clothes that fit her, so she tries making her own. Minkoff graduated from high school without a clear path forward, and then destiny intervened. As she tells it, her brother came home one day with the phone number of Craig Taylor, a designer he’d met at a party. She called the next day. “What do you know how to do? Can you be here in October? We pay $3.25 an hour.” She moved to New York City in 1999 and lived with a gay friend of hers. Every night after 10 P.M., he’d sneak her into the Fordham University dorms when security wasn’t looking so that she had a place to stay.
She knew nothing about business (“I was terrible at it”) but possessed a palpable level of talent, enthusiasm, and drive. She was assigned to shipping in the beginning (“I was pissed”), but then-CEO Christina Kumi Kimball insisted she work in every area of the company so that she could understand how all the departments worked together. Shortly thereafter, she was “cutting swatches, calling stores, making appointments, and working with the graphics team.” Over time, she started designing her own items. It was here that Minkoff devised her now-iconic ripped “I Heart NY” shirt, which she eventually gifted to her sister-in-law’s friend, Elfman, at the actress’s behest. Elfman’s appearance onLenospurred initial interest in the Minkoff brand, but it was the ubiquity of the Morning After Bag, a canvas-with-leather-trim tote meant to hold all of your belongings for an impromptu sleepover, that made Minkoff a household name.
When blogs began dominating the cultural conversation, things really started to take off. It was there that Minkoff was able to communicate with her customers, both established and prospective. “These women would say, ‘We want you to bring back the purple bag with the zipper, blah blah blah.’ I’d say, ‘Great, give me your credit card.’ They would email me their credit card numbers. I would run them and go up to 39th Street, where my factory was, and say, ‘All right, we’ve got [orders for] 20 more bags.’ Not only was it access for me, but it was the conversation and community. That made a very strong relationship with my customer early on. [The Morning After Bag is] what got us through the recession. The amount of individual orders with those same women, with me asking, ‘What do you want now?’”
Minkoff credits her brother, Uri, the co-founder of the business, with helping her turn her talent into a profitable brand. “It’s a different language than you’re used to, and if you don’t learn it, you will be dead in the water,” he told her. She was annoyed with him for criticizing her creativity in the moment, but looking back, she’s glad she didn’t allow her sensitivity to curtail growth. By 2005, the label was officially founded. Four years later, in 2009, the brand launched ready-to-wear and began showing at New York Fashion Week. But the pinnacle? The seemingly absurd decision to drop prices. Coming out of the financial crisis, Minkoff knew from speaking to her long-loyal customers that they could no longer afford the bags. “We thought, ‘We’re going to make more and go back to our factories and renegotiate once we have the volume.’” They waited “three long, scary months” to see if the risk would pay off. It did. After prices decreased by $100 per product, and the maximum price for a clutch was capped at $195, Rebecca Minkoff experienced over 500 percent growth over the next three years and a strong retention rate among its customers.
In the ensuing years, Rebecca Minkoff developed a reputation for embracing technology: in 2013, she used Snapchat to debut some of her runway looks before any of her competitors and opened the “store of the future” in 2014, which featured smart mirrors in fitting rooms (a partnership with eBay) and self-checkout. Then COVID happened, and the label took an enormous hit before being sold, in 2022, to Sunrise Brands, a diversified apparel company, for a price estimated at between $13 million and $19 million,according toWomen’s Wear Daily(Minkoff remains chief creative officer). Now, amid a vastly different fashion landscape, Minkoff is working to cater to a customer’s ever-evolving demands. The label made its Crypto Fashion Week debut (yes, that was a real thing) in 2021, showing a 15-piece NFT line of clothes and accessories, and briefly joined OnlyFans that same year to share exclusive behind-the-scenes brand content.
Minkoff seems most comfortable when she’s doling out career advice. “You’re setting yourself up for failure if you think you can have a career over one year that really takes over 10. It might take fucking 20,” she says. Her conviction in offering wisdom through the lens of a woman who’s accomplished so much makes it easy to understand how she grew her audience, and why her business has lasted at a time when so many of her contemporaries have shuttered or been scooped up by luxury conglomerates.
The question now becomes: Can Minkoff grow her audience even more via the covetedHousewiveseffect? Time will surely tell. But beyond the business opportunity, she’s also exposing herself to the scrutiny that’s a hallmark of the franchise. Does she worry that the show will open up her life to criticism from an audience known for foaming at the mouth over “receipts, proof, timeline, and screenshots”? “Every day,” Minkoff says. “Whether it’s the buyer or the reviews, there are these moments where people can attack you. And it’s just like, ‘Throw another shrimp on that barbie.’” In a sign that she’ll do well on the show, Minkoff throws out what could easily be workshopped into a housewife tagline: “I’ve had to develop very thick skin. Good thing I’m in the leather business.”
Hair by Brandon McHie; makeup by Cat Mignano.
Meet Lady Gaga’s Beau of 4 Years, Michael Polansky
Selena Gomez Had Benny Blanco Do Her Makeup
All About Jennifer Garner's Boyfriend John Miller
Sources on What’s Happening Between Jen and Ben
Millie Bobby Brown Reveals Her Real Name
Lady Gaga on How Michael’s Proposal Led to Song
Demi Moore Posts a Public Message to Mikey Madison
All About Kieran Culkin's Wife, Jazz Charton
All About Simone Ashley’s Ex-Boyfriend Tino Klein
Meghan Markle on Her Kids’ British Accents
Andrew and Monica Seen Kissing at Oscar Party
A Timeline of Barry Keoghan and Sabrina Carpenter
A Part of Hearst Digital Media
We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back.
©2025 Hearst Magazine Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
----------------------------------------
Title: Haider Ackermann Suits Tom Ford
Date: 2025-03-05T23:39:00Z
Content:
For his debut as creative director, Ackermann explored the duality of masculine and feminine.
This week in Paris, there have been several highly anticipated creative director debuts and two of them happened today. The first was Julian Klausner’s excellent collection for Dries Van Noten, and the other was from Haider Ackermann at Tom Ford. Haider Ackermann is a designer’s designer. Karl Lagerfeld once said that he’d ultimately choose Ackermann to replace him at Chanel. His devotees are the kinds of people who stand out for their singular confidence; his sharp-shouldered tailoring and asymmetrical draping has a genderless appeal. Both Tilda Swinton and Timothee Chalamet are avowed fans.
But Ackermann’s a Tom Ford man now, and already, it seems like the perfect fit. The collection he presented today was, for lack of a better term, hot. That’s what the Tom Ford brand is about anyway, isn’t it? Unapologetic sex, confidence, and fierceness wrapped up in the chicest of leather or suede bows. As Ackermann said backstage, “The house of Ford is all about vanity. You look at yourself in the mirror, you take that moment, it’s a very selfish moment, but a beautiful moment.” To emphasize this point, the designer lined the outer walls of the runway with what looked like fogged-up mirrors, which was a clever way to underscore the sensuality of the collection, but not as clever as the clothes themselves.
The opening looks all incorporated leather in some way, shape, or form–a hot little side-zip moto jacket and trouser with a bitty belt, a loosely cut tee, and a blazer the model carried with a death grip at the collar. Ackermann focused on gesture throughout, namely in the way he styled many of the jackets with lapels either fully up or one up and one down as if the wearers were in a state of constant personal introspection and change.
There were Technicolor suits with Ackermann’s signature peaked shoulders and a gorgeous lavender fringed dress worn by supermodel Karen Elson. There were also several other dresses that experimented with ideas of fluidity, doing the opposite of body-con with silhouettes that felt more ethereal, though made devilish by the addition of a slit up the front or the entire sides of the torso cut out. It’s not the sex on a platter of Fordian history. Ackermann’s updated the perspective to be about the suggestion of sex.
Balancing hard and soft materials, the collection was, Ackermann noted, an exploration of “the duality between masculinity and femininity.” Suits have always been Ford’s calling card, just as they have been for Ackermann. For the finale, a group of models led by Kristen McMenamy appeared like a gang in classic, excruciatingly cool, and sharp suits in classic black and grey. It was a clear nod to Ford’s legacy without feeling like another soulless attempt at nostalgia.
Nostalgia, after all, is a feeling, not a single novelty item or a head-to-toe look on a runway. To find synergy between then and now, a great designer knows how to imbue their own singular vision to that of a house with very singular codes. Ackermann nailed it on his first try. Just look at the three looks that closed the show: a tuxedo jacket and two dresses in a shimmery grey fabric that was shirred to look as though it had scales. Ford has always been known for his use of exotic skins and animal prints, and it was a smart way to pay homage without ripping the page directly out of the book. These silhouettes were looser and freer, again a suggestion of sex, not something in your face. These looks, and Ackermann’s whole collection, were kind of a shedding of skin–making room for something new at the house that Tom Ford built.
Alaïa's Pieter Mulier Will Always Dare to Dream
Are Power Hips Better Than Power Shoulders?
Vaquera Grew Up—Kinda!
Here’s Why We’re in the Era of Sciura Style
Prada Tells Us to Put Our Big Girl Pants On
Inside Fendi's 100th Anniversary Show
The Bumster Pant Is Back, and So Is Fun
Celebrating British Style at London Fashion Week
Lauryn Hill Wore Plaid on Plaid at Burberry
Simone Rocha Always Goes Her Own Way
5 Trend Takeaways from London Fashion Week
Dilara Findikoğlu Returns to London Fashion Week
A Part of Hearst Digital Media
We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back.
©2025 Hearst Magazine Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
----------------------------------------
Title: Why Fall Is the Perfect Time for a Mediterranean Vacation
Date: 2025-02-24T21:56:00Z
Content:
The islands saw record numbers of visitors this summer. But the best time to experience the Mediterranean’s quiet rhythms is off-season
BlameThe White Lotus.This summer, Sicily was overwhelmed with tourists. Legendary beach-club destinations like Capri and Mykonos are typically elbow to elbow in July and August, but since Covid-related travel restrictions were lifted, they have been especially packed—despite the record high temperatures. This explains why savvy travelers are not only planning trips to the Mediterranean islands in September and October, they are also venturing further afield.
“Autumn is my favorite time,” says French architect Marie Rivalant-Lazarakis, owner of two intimate properties on the quiet Greek isle of Kastellorizo, part of the Dodecanese archipelago. Mediterraneo, a lemon-yellow guest house, is named for the 1991 Oscar-winning film that was shot there. Last summer, Rivalant-Lazarakis partnered with two friends, Grégoire Du Pasquier, also an architect, and Luc Lejeune, an interior designer, to open the blood-orange all-suite hotel Casa Mediterraneo across the harbor. Made of three conjoined neoclassical buildings, the hillside property features six airy suites with sea views and private terraces.
When it comes to Spain’s Balearic Islands, it’s always been Ibiza and Mallorca that have gotten all the attention. But now the more rural Menorca, with its art-world cachet (Hauser & Wirth opened an outpost there in 2021), turquoise water, and dramatic copper-hued beaches, is having a moment. Thanks to Menorca’s strict historical-preservation laws, there has been a boom of exceptionally stylish agroturismo properties, from the Menorca Experimental to Santa Ponsa.
The latest and greatest is Son Blanc Farmhouse, an abandoned 19th-century stone manor refurbished as a 14-room boutique hotel with an infinity pool overlooking olive groves. It was renovated by the London-based couple Benoît Pellegrini and Benedicta Linares Pearce, who is from Menorca. They spent years replanting the land so that by the time Son Blanc opened this spring, the kitchen team was harvesting herbs, tomatoes, and artichokes to supply the garden-to-table restaurant.
Even in Sicily, it’s possible to find a quiet corner. Venture inland and you’ll find the newly opened Palazzo Previtera in Linguaglossa, with three rooms and two garden cottages set within a 17th-century family property on the northern side of Mount Etna. Owner Alfio Puglisi spent the past 10 years impeccably restoring its ornate interiors: grand spaces lined with brightly patterned historic silk fabrics and colorful floor tiles, elaborately painted ceilings, and valuable antiquarian books. Fall is a great time to visit, as some of the wines being made in the area’s volcanic soil have been gaining a cult following and the harvest traditionally takes place in September. Staying here is less like hustling for space with other Americans and more like staying with a charming host.
Is This America's Most Luxurious Hotel?
5 Unmissable Luxury Train Travel Experiences
Finding Peace and Beauty in Tokyo's Slower Side
A Local's Guide to Oahu
The Best Vacation Spots for Mountain Scenery
Rome's Best New Hotels Are All About Sprezzatura
The Fashion Editor’s Guide to Paris
Where Bazaar Editors Are Escaping to in 2025
The Luxury Guide to Qatar
The Best Last-Minute Weekend Getaways From NYC
A Stylish Guide to Paris
Your Official Travel Guide to Nantucket
A Part of Hearst Digital Media
We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back.
©2025 Hearst Magazine Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
----------------------------------------
Title: The 30 Best Netflix Original Shows to Stream Now
Date: 2025-03-06T14:52:00Z
Content:
FromWednesdaytoThe Crownto theBridgertonmultiverse, there's no shortage of content courtesy of the world's largest streamer
Netflix has come a long way since 1997, when its business model was sending DVD rentals in the mail. Now the biggest streamer in the world,the best TV showsto watch are often Netflix originals; they’ve won awards, captured our imagination, and dominated group chats.
With new titles dropping every month, there’s something to satiate your every mood. Some shows, likeBaby ReindeerandThe Crown, have become instant classics, and award-winners likeBeefandSquid Gamehave pushed the boundaries of storytelling. So whether you're discovering them for the first time or revisiting old favorites, these are our must-see series (in no particular order other than which they came to me) that define the platform—and, in many ways, the modern era of television.
The recipient of more than 130 awards and almost 500 nominations,The Crownis a dramatic (often embellished) retelling of the life of Queen Elizabeth II. Beloved by critics and audiences alike, it’s considered one of Netflix’s flagship series. Six captivating seasons span almost six decades of the long-standing English matriarch’s reign, beginning with her marriage to Philip Mountbatten in 1947 and ending with the wedding of Prince Charles and Camilla Parker Bowles.
Dearest reader, does this show need an introduction? This is Regency-era escapism at its horniest. Based on the bestselling books by Julia Quinn, the show centers on the eight Bridgerton siblings in their quests for love and self-discovery. It’s not exactly historically accurate, but you don’t watch this show for that. There are three seasons already with a fourth on its way.
Controversial take, but the prequel toBridgerton, at least in this humble writer’s opinion, is better than its predecessor. You won’t get the same lofty romance asBridgerton; Queen Charlotte’s themes are darker and more complex. Because of this, I actually think the love story between Queen Charlotte and King George is more compelling than any other in the original series.
It’s a special thing to watch, comedic actors taking on dramatic roles. You realize just how talented they really are. Jason Bateman, best known forArrested DevelopmentandHorrible Bosses, really shines in this four-season crime drama series about a financial planner whose money laundering for a drug cartel goes horribly wrong. The ghastly decisions of these characters become weirdly understandable given the circumstances, and that empathy is where this show really shines.
I grew up watchingAvatarbut was seriously skeptical about how this beloved anime series would translate to the live-action format. Full credit to the casting directors, costume designers, and effects team on this one becauseThe Last Airbenderseries was a real treat and took a significant step forward in Asian and Indigenous representation on screen. It’s already been renewed for a second and third season.
In Mindy Kahling’s signature humor that blends fast-paced, witty one-liners with deep emotional storytelling,Never Have I Everis a charming coming-of-age tale about Devi, as she navigates cultural identity, romance, and grief. The voice of tennis legend John McEnroe as the narrator inside Devi’s head is an unexpected quirk, to say the least, but somehow, it works.
Beefwasn’t just about a road rage incident—it was about two people (Steven Yeun’s Danny and Ali Wong’s Amy) who were unraveling under the weight of their own disappointments, failures, and societal pressures. How relatable is that? The award-winning series, which has been confirmed for a second season, combined sharp writing, complex characters, and a deeply human exploration of anger, resentment, and identity.
Contrary to this show’s title, it would seem that everybody wants this, that is, the love of the charming and dorky Adam Brody.Nobody Wants Thiswas one of the most beloved releases of 2024, with the story of an agnostic relationships podcaster who falls in love with a newly single rabbi. Delightful performances all ‘round from Kristen Bell, Brody, and Justine Lupe.
For better or worse,Baby Reindeerunleashed pandemonium online with sleuths trying to uncover the true identities of the characters depicted in this award-winning black comedy/thriller series. Based on the creator Richard Gadd’s experience with a stalker and sexual abuse, the show captivated audiences and dominated watercooler discussions in a way that happens very rarely these days.
From an aesthetic perspective, director David Fincher does not do things by halves. Every shot, camera angle, shadows, and dialogue delivery ofMindhunteris meticulous—beautiful, even, despite its macabre subject matter. For two seasons, we follow FBI agents, Holden Ford and Bill Tench, with psychologist Wendy Carr, as they establish the groundbreaking Behavioral Science Unit by interviewing serial killers. It was so good it was deemed too expensive to renew for a third season.
When They See Usis a gutwrenching drama based on the true story of five young Harlem teens falsely accused of the assault and rape of a white female jogger in Central Park in 1989. It sheds light on the systemic injustices and racial bias within the legal system with mesmerizing performances across the board, particularly from the young actors cast as the “wolf pack.” Unsurprisingly, it was nominated for and won many awards after its release in 2019.
What began as a film was picked up by Netflix and turned into a series that spanned four seasons.Dear White Peoplewas powerful because it tackled issues like racism, privilege, colorism, and activism in a way that was insightful, provocative, and often uncomfortable—forcing viewers to engage in real conversations.
Narcoswas one of the earlier shows to the Netflix Originals suite, and to the show that put Pedro Pascal in the mainstream consciousness, we are eternally grateful. Across three seasons, this gritty crime show chronicles the rise of the Colombian drug cartel, and drug lord Pablo Escobar, in the ‘80s from the perspective of DEA agents.
Heartstopperperfectly captured the heartwarming, wholesome essence of Alice Oseman’s graphic novels. Joe Locke (Charlie) and Kit Connor (Nick) had incredible chemistry, making their love story feel natural and deeply relatable. Unlike so many representations of the LGBTQI+ experience that hold underlying trauma,Heartstopperemphasizes joy, supportive friendships, and self-discovery.
Based on a 2015 Pulitzer Prize-winning articleAn Unbelievable Story of Rape,Unbelievabletells the story of a woman, Marie (played with Kaitlyn Dever), who reports she was raped, only to recant her testimony and the two female detectives who investigate a spate of similar crimes. Toni Collette, Dever, and Merritt Wever give absolutely remarkable performances.
Let me preface this by saying I am a total chicken when it comes to horror, so forThe Haunting of Bly Manorto make this list is a big deal. I wouldn’t categorize this Mike Flanagan series as scary so much as it is unsettling, with a sprinkling of psychological jumpscares. It tells the story of a nanny who arrives at an isolated English manor to care for two orphaned children when she begins to notice apparitions around the estate.
Dead to Meis a realistic, sometimes funny, complicated depiction of grief and female friendship, with Christina Applegate and Linda Cardellini offering stellar performances as Jen and Judy. Jen’s husband is the victim of an unsolved hit-and-run and befriends Judy at a support group, who’s suffering a loss of her own. But Judy is also harboring a shocking secret. And as it turns out, so was Jen’s husband.
A transcendent role for Sofía Vergara,Griseldais based on the true story of the “Godmother of Cocaine,” Griselda Blanco. The six-part miniseries is excellently paced and widely regarded as a triumph among critics and audiences alike, not to mention the 70s and 80s fashion is absolutely sumptuous.
Lupinis a French-language mystery-thriller inspired by Arsène Lupin, a fictional master thief and gentleman created in 1905 by Maurice Leblanc. He’s the only son of a Senegalese immigrant to France, who seeks revenge on the wealthy family that framed and sent his father to prison. Filmed in three parts, it was the first French series to rank among Netflix’s top 10 in the United States and sits at a 98% approval rating on Rotten Tomatoes.
Based on Julie Orringer’s novelThe Flight Portfolio,Transatlanticbrought to life the real efforts of Varian Fry and Mary Jayne Gold in rescuing artists, intellectuals, and dissidents during Nazi-occupied France in World War II. It’s a beautiful blend of history, suspense, and love stories against a vibrant aesthetic.
The 26 Best Movies to Stream on Peacock
A First Look at Netflix’sForever
These Aprons Are Duchess Meghan-Approved
Get Ready for the Oscars with Michelle Yeoh
Duchess Meghan Loves This Surprising Ingredient
Duchess Meghan Is Finally Doing What She Loves
Where Duchess Meghan Filmed Her Netflix Show
Will There Be a Season 2 of Duchess Meghan's Show?
Get Ready for the Oscars with Margaret Qualley
Diving Into Doja Cat’s Oscars Performance Dress
Dissecting the Toxic Trio in 'The White Lotus' S3
How to Watch the Oscar-Winning Film 'Anora'
A Part of Hearst Digital Media
We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back.
©2025 Hearst Magazine Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
----------------------------------------