Title: 7 Emotion-Focused Coping Techniques for Uncertain Times
Date: No Publication Date
Content:
While it may not solve a problem directly, emotion-focused coping can equip you to address it. Some ways you can practice emotion-focused coping include meditating, journaling, and reframing.
There are two distinct coping strategies:
Emotion-focused coping skills help you process and work through unwanted or painfulemotionsand reactions.
This approach won’t help you solve a problem directly, but you may feel somewhat better about what’s happening — or more equipped to handle it. This is also an effective approach when there is no clear solution to a problem.
A2024 review of studiesfound that coping through an emotional approach was associated with better mental and physical health.
Meditationhelps you learn to acknowledge and sit with all of your thoughts and experiences, even the difficult ones. There are many differenttypes of meditation, so you can find one that is right for you.
You can practice meditation anytime, anywhere, and it won’t cost you anything. It may feel unfamiliar or uncomfortable at first. But if you are consistent, you are more likely to see and feel the benefits.
Sometimes,writing down your feelingsis the first step in working through them. You might eventually find that journaling offers a type of emotional catharsis, as you remove them from your mind and transfer them into your journal.
To get the most out of journaling, try:
Optimismwon’t solve problems alone, but it can boost your emotional wellness.
To add more positive thinking to your life, try:
Initially, these might feel unnatural to you. That’s OK. With a bit of practice, they’ll start to feel more natural.
It’s important to understand that optimistic or positive thinking doesnotinvolve ignoring your problems. It’s about giving challenges a positive spin and finding pockets of joy to help you get through them.
It’s easy to focus on feelings of injustice or unfairness when someone wrongs you or does something unkind.
Forgiveness can help youlet goof hurt and begin healing from it. Keep in mind that it can take some time to come to terms with your pain before you feel able to forgive.
Practicing forgiveness can benefit your emotional wellness in a number of ways. You may notice:
Looking for tips on practicing forgiveness? Check out our guide to letting go of the past.
When you reframe a situation, you look at it from another perspective. This can help you consider the bigger picture instead of getting stuck on little details.
For example, say your relationship has been struggling over the past few months because you and your partner haven’t had much time to do things together or communicate about problems.
Suddenly, you lose your job and find that you’re now spending lotsof time at home.
Instead of letting frustration and boredom build up, you can look at the bright side of the situation: You now have plenty of time to reconnect with your partner andstrengthen your relationship.
Bottling up negative emotions can affect your health. A2021 studyfound that emotional suppression was associated with emotional eating, which led to increased BMI.
It’s generally a good idea totalk about your feelingsto any others involved in the situation. They may not even realize they had an impact on you unless you tell them.
Communicating your difficulties won’t always resolve them, but if an approach to resolution does exist, you’re more likely to discover it together.
Talking about your emotions to a trusted loved one can also help you feel better, especially when there’s no good solution to your problem. Friends and family can provide social and emotional support bylistening with empathyand validating your feelings.
Some serious concerns can cause a lot of distress. You may be going through abreakup, facing a health concern, or dealing withgrief.
There’s not much you can do to change these circumstances, and dealing with the painful emotions that come up on your own can be hard.
A trusted mental health professional can help you manage emotional distress by offering guidance on any of the emotion-focused coping strategies above. They can also provide support that’s more specifically tailored to your situation.
Our guide to affordable therapy can help you get started.
While it doesn’t help you solve a problem directly, emotion-focused coping can help you feel equipped to approach it. Coping through an emotional approach is associated with improved mental and physical health.
Some ways you can practice emotion-focused coping are meditating, journaling, and reframing. While these practices may feel uncomfortable at first, over time, they can start to feel more natural.
Crystal Raypole has previously worked as a writer and editor for GoodTherapy. Her fields of interest include Asian languages and literature, Japanese translation, cooking, natural sciences, sex positivity, and mental health. In particular, she’s committed to helping decrease stigma around mental health issues.
----------------------------------------
Title: Your Guide to Glucose Health
Date: No Publication Date
Content:
Bezzy communities provide meaningful connections with others living with chronic conditions. Join Bezzy on the web or mobile app.
Can't get enough? Connect with us for all things health.
Type 2 diabetes is one of the most common illnesses in the world, but do you know the basics?
Glucose, or blood sugar, is key to keeping the body in top shape. Read on to learn how it works, how to test it, and what to do if you have atypical levels.
Managing your glucose levels can have a major impact on your health and well-being. Our interactive guide outlines weekly to-dos for better glucose health.
Find out everything you need to know about diabetes here, including types, symptoms, causes, and risk factors. Learn about how it’s diagnosed, whether it can be prevented, its effects, and more.
Learn about the similarities and differences between insulin resistance and diabetes.
Diabetes is a chronic condition that needs lifelong management. A variety of tests can diagnose diabetes. Learn about who should get tested, and how.
Prediabetes simply means that your fasting blood glucose is higher than the normal range, and there are steps you can take to prevent type 2 diabetes.
People with prediabetes are at an increased risk of developing type 2 diabetes. Discover how a prediabetes diet (plus exercise) can help prevent or delay it.
Vitamin D can help with blood sugar levels and insulin production, so some research indicates it can help people with prediabetes avoid a diagnosis of type 2 diabetes.
When it comes to managing your diabetes, the first few hours of each day are the most important — and probably most hectic too! Here are 5 life hacks to make your morning hours go more smoothly.
New research found a link between exercising later in the day and a reduction in insulin resistance in obese or overweight people.
These breakfast, lunch, dinner, and dessert recipes may help support you in lowering your A1C levels and keep you satisfied throughout your day.
Researchers studying older adults with pre-diabetes found that 15 minutes of easy-to-moderate exercise after every meal curbed risky blood sugar spikes all day.
Type 2 diabetes may impact your sleep, especially if you're having trouble managing your blood sugar levels. Learn 10 tips to help you get a better night's rest.
Diabetes is a condition that affects the body’s ability to use blood sugar for energy. The three types are type 1, type 2, and gestational diabetes. Each type of diabetes has different risk factors to be aware of. Read on to learn more about the risk factors of diabetes and what you can do to prevent diabetes.
People 45 years and older have a higher risk of developing type 2 diabetes, but more and more young people are being diagnosed with diabetes. Learn how age and other factors affect diabetes risk.
Type 2 diabetes is a serious condition, but you can manage it with treatment. Is it possible for it to be reversed? Learn the facts.
----------------------------------------
Title: Health Information Policy
Date: No Publication Date
Content:
Mayo Clinic's mission is to inspire hope and promote health. We provide health information to help you make informed decisions about your health.
Health information includes:
Mayo Clinic is committed to providing health information that is:
Mayo Clinic is an academic medical center with more than 5,000 physicians and scientists. More than 100 serve asmedical editors. Medical editors work closely with Mayo editorial staff. They review health information in their area of specialty. Medical editors review materials written by editorial staff to ensure that it's accurate and reflects Mayo's perspective.
It's a Mayo policy that medical editors disclose financial interests related to an invention, technology, company or product referenced in a piece of content. Disclosure statements appear with the content.
Editorial staff have bachelor's and advanced degrees in communications, journalism, English and related areas of study. Senior editorial staff have a minimum of seven years of relevant experience. The content development process includes contributions from multiple disciplines: For this reason, editorial staff members do not receive bylines.
Health information on this website is created using a standard process. The process includes editorial research, writing and editing, medical review, copy editing, annotation, visual content creation, and publishing.
Editorial staff determine new health information topics using a variety of inputs. This includes medical editors and other Mayo colleagues. Editorial staff and medical editors make final decisions on new topics. Priority is given to topics of interest to the general public and Mayo Clinic patients.
Just as medicine evolves, so does health information. For this reason, all published health information is on a review schedule. Faster-evolving topics — diseases, conditions, diagnostic tests and medical procedures — are reviewed at least every two years. Reviews focus on medical accuracy, relevance and supporting evidence. Editorial staff and medical editors closely check evidence-based guidelines in their assigned topic areas. This and other new information that may require revisions before the next scheduled review. When criteria are met, some revisions are processed as a critical update and republished as quickly as possible. Health information review and publishing dates are posted for transparency. Health information is annually checked for accuracy, redundancy and reader engagement. Content may be archived if it is considered out of date, redundant or has low engagement.
To ensure accuracy and reliability, editorial staff follow a standardized procedure for selecting, documenting and verifying best-available medical evidence to support original content. Not all scientific evidence is of equal value or strength, so sources are defined and categorized. Health information writers use the strongest sources. These include national and international guidelines, consensus statements, evidence-based databases and peer-reviewed journals. Editorial staff consult with Mayo Clinic experts to help interpret and apply that evidence. Mayo medical specialists also are cited as expert sources. A team of editorial research librarians helps with these activities. Librarians have advanced degrees in the library sciences and a minimum of two years of relevant experience.
Editorial staff write and edit content to adhere to these and other best practices:
Medical editors review health information for accuracy, timeliness and relevance and sources consulted. Medical editors may consult with other experts to ensure that statements are based on the best-available evidence and expert consensus.
Health information is reviewed by an ontology specialist. Descriptive metadata, such as subject and audience, is added to the content. Descriptive metadata supports the management, organization, delivery and findability of health information.
A team of specialized staff members creates visual health information, including:
A team of content linguists translates English language health information created by editorial staff to three target languages: Arabic, Simplified Chinese and Spanish. Content linguists also review the translations of external language service providers to ensure that they meet Mayo's high standards. Standards include glossaries and quality-assurance processes to ensure that translations are correct, readable, clear and consistent. Linguists have advanced degrees in foreign languages, journalism and communications fields, and at least five years of relevant experience.
As a service to readers, we include some links to external websites and social media outlets. External links are identified and evaluated as part of the content development process.
Editorial staff may choose to link to an external website if it meets these criteria:
We may use artificial intelligence (AI) tools in the development and translation of health information. For example, AI technology may help authors consistently write in plain language and choose words and images that are inclusive. AI tools also are used to optimize content for search applications and align with Mayo's preferred terminology, editorial style and target reading levels. Content linguists use context-intelligent software that automates storage and reuse of human-translated sentences and confirm quality. AI tools do not replace editorial judgment or oversight.
Editorial staff are committed to correcting or clarifying published health information that is confusing, misleading or inaccurate. This determination is made by editorial staff in close consultation with medical editors. For transparency, corrections that involve misstatements of fact in health information arelisted herefor 30 days.
Health information on this website has been reviewed by independent evaluators for more than two decades. This has included Consumer Reports Web Watch guidelines, NewsGuard and the HONcode standard for trustworthy information, which ended its services in 2022.View a list of accreditations and awards.
We want to hear from you. Please use thisformto submit a comment or question.
----------------------------------------
Title: Top-ranked hospital in the U.S.
Date: No Publication Date
Content:
Mayo Clinic is top-ranked in more specialties than any other hospital and has been recognized as an Honor Roll member according to U.S. News & World Report's 2024-2025 "Best Hospitals" rankings.
We are changing the very definition of possible, and we're doing it right here, right now. Meet the physicians and teams united by an unrelenting purpose to change the future of healthcare, forever.
Mayo Clinic patients are often the first to benefit from our research. Right now, our doctors are working on more than 12,000 clinical studies, researching new treatments and therapies for the world’s most challenging and complex medical issues.
Mayo Clinic is honored to once again lead in more specialties than any other hospital. This recognition affirms our commitment to healthcare excellence as we continue to globally transform healthcare for people everywhere.
Mayo Clinic in Arizona is the No. 1 hospital in Arizona for the 12th consecutive year.
Mayo Clinic in Florida is the No. 1 hospital in Florida.
Mayo Clinic in Minnesota is the No. 1 hospital in Minnesota and top-ranked in 13 specialties.
----------------------------------------
Title: Medicare Accountable Care Organization (ACO) public reporting information
Date: No Publication Date
Content:
Mayo Clinic Community Accountable Care Organization, LLC200 First Street SWRochester, MN 55905
Primary Contact Name: Kristin S. Johnson, M.B.A.Primary Contact Phone Number:833-236-0314(toll-free) or507-422-6244Primary Contact Email Address:MedicareACO@mayo.edu
View the full Shared Savings Program Public Report (PDF).
Read answers to frequently asked questions about Mayo Clinic’s participation as an ACO.
----------------------------------------