Title: Experience: My dog found a missing person and saved his life
Date: 2025-03-07T10:00:40.000Z
Content:
He suddenly stopped dead, focused on a spot in front of him, then dragged me towards the undergrowth
When Bear stopped dead in his tracks, his nose turned towards some undergrowth, it was clear something was wrong. It was November last year – Bear’s 12th birthday, and his first proper walk after weeks of taking it easy while he recovered from serious surgery. The South Downs stretched before us. The sun had set and the temperature was dropping.
Bear is a retired police dog – a huge, 48kg German shepherd. He entered the force as a puppy, then spent six years in active service, working alongside firearms units as well as tracking suspects and missing people.
He retired in March 2020. There’s no set timetable for when police dogs stop working, but they will often let you know they’ve had enough. It’s intense work: very physical, often at night, in dangerous environments. His handler couldn’t keep him, so Bear came to live with me and my husband – both retired police officers ourselves – for a well-earned rest.
In his career, Bear faced physical challenges, which caught up with him after retirement. In August 2023, he suddenly lost the use of his back legs. Scans revealed four herniated discs in his spine, which required surgery. It was touch and go, but his resilience amazed us.
He underwent weeks of physiotherapy and still moves with a slight wobble. Bear’s surgeries were expensive, but luckily,a great charitythat supports retired police dogs stepped in to help.
Then, in late 2023, Bear developed testicular tumours. We braced for the worst, but they were benign. It still meant more major precautionary surgery, so by November 2024, he still hadn’t been farther than the garden for weeks. But, for a birthday treat, we decided we’d take him for a walk.
We took him without our other dog, so that Bear could go at his own pace. It’s quite exposed along the Sussex Way, a path with dense areas of woodland and undergrowth. We reached the top and admired the view, but it was getting dark and cold.
As we came back down the track, we debated whether we should go straight back to the car, or give it another 10 minutes. Bear was enjoying himself, so we carried on.
It was along that path that Bear suddenly stopped dead in front of us. He stepped backwards, completely focused on a spot in front of him, then dragged me towards the undergrowth. Cautiously, I entered a patch of dense brambles, wondering what I was about to find. There were no noises or indication that anything was amiss. I wondered if Bear had made a mistake.
Then I saw an older man on the ground. He couldn’t get up and seemed to be in distress. He had a few scratches on him and was confused and cold, but he could talk and made it clear he was very happy to see us. He told us he’d gone for a walk and got lost, then tripped over and couldn’t get up.
I called the police and coordinated a meeting point. It was a struggle to get him up – I wasn’t sure if he was badly hurt. We supported him as we walked to the nearest car park, Bear leading the way. It was dark and cold – just 2C. If Bear hadn’t found him, it’s unlikely he would have survived the night.
It transpired that the man had been missing for hours. He lived locally and his family had reported it when he hadn’t come home. Officers had deployed drones and a helicopter, and conducted foot searches, but the terrain was difficult, so he hadn’t been found. Without Bear’s instincts, we would have walked straight past him.
Sign up toInside Saturday
The only way to get a look behind the scenes of the Saturday magazine. Sign up to get the inside story from our top writers as well as all the must-read articles and columns, delivered to your inbox every weekend.
after newsletter promotion
When we reached the car park, the officers were already there, as was one of the man’s relatives, who rushed to meet him. Before climbing into the car, the man turned back to thank us one more time. Bear, however, was unfazed. Once he’d done his bit, he lay down for a belly rub.
That night, Bear enjoyed a birthday steak, although he had to share it with our other dog, Koda.
Today, Bear’s retirement is about living his best life. He loves walks, lounging in bed and snuggling up to watch breakfast TV.
I wonder what he might say if he could talk. I’m sure he’d brush off his birthday heroics, saying, “I was just doing my job.” He didn’t choose to be a police dog, but he gave his all to the role.
As told to Sophie Haydock
Do you have an experience to share? Emailexperience@theguardian.com
----------------------------------------
Title: ‘Stop these crazy bills’: Republicans join Democrats to defeat anti-trans legislation in Montana
Date: 2025-03-07T16:43:23.000Z
Content:
One bill would remove trans children from their parents, and the other would ban drag shows and Pride marches
Republicanlawmakers inMontanavoted en masse to help defeat two extreme anti-trans bills in an unprecedented move on Thursday, after powerful speeches from twotransrepresentatives imploring them to reject the latest intent to criminalize gender nonconformity.
State representative Zooey Zephyr spoke out against a bill that sought to ban drag performances and Pride parades inMontana, introduced by a Republican member of of the house who has referred to transgenderism as a “fetish based on crossdressing”.
“At its very core, drag is art. It is very beautiful art. It has a deep history in this country, and it is important to my community,” said Zephyr. “I am here to stand before the body and say that my life is not a fetish. When I go to walk [my son] to school, that’s not a lascivious display. That is not a fetish. That is my family.”
State representative Caleb Hinkle introduced the bill after a previous drag ban was struck down by the courts, having been used tostop a Native American transgender womanfrom giving a history lecture at a library. The new bill would have granted private individuals the right to sue if a public drag show took place.
In an unusual move, a Republican representative, Sherry Essmann, also spoke out against the bill.
“Trust the parents to do what’s right, and stop these crazy bills that are a waste of time. They’re a waste of energy. We should be working on property tax relief and not doing this sort of business on the floor of this house and having to even talk about this,” said Essmann.
The bill was defeated by 55 to 44, after 13 Republicans flipped to support Democrats.
In Montana, the part-time legislature has spent more than half of its days this session pushing such bills through committees and the house floor, with Republicans largely voting in lockstep, according to reporting by Erin Reed, an independent LGBTQ+ journalist whopublishes a daily newsletter.
Representative SJ Howell then spoke out against an even more extreme bill that sought to remove transgender children from their parents.
“Every time a child is removed from their family, it’s a tragedy. Sometimes a necessary tragedy, but a tragedy nonetheless. This bill does not come close to the seriousness with which those decisions should be contemplated,” said Howell.
“Put yourself in the shoes of a [child protective service] worker who is confronted with a young person … living in a stable home with loving parents, who is supported and has their needs met. And they are supposed to remove that child from their home and put them in the care of the state? We should absolutely not be doing that.”
The bill was defeated by 71 votes to 27, after 29 Republicans defected.
After the votes, Zephyr thanked Republican colleagues for helping defeat the bills.
“Rep Howell & I have built solid relationships with Republicans and those relationships change hearts, minds, and (eventually) votes. It is painful, grueling work. But it makes a difference,”Zephyr wrote on Bluesky.
“May [Rep Essmann’s] courage be contagious, and may it lead to more Republicans standing up against these bills,” she also posted.
There are 696 bills currently under consideration across 49 states that would negatively impact trans and gender-nonconforming people. Texas is the state with the most anti-trans policy initiatives, with 97 active bills, followed by Missouri, West Virginia, Oklahoma, Iowa and Connecticut. So far this year, 18 bills have been passed, which follows an unprecedented 87 in 2024, according to the translegislation tracker.
At the federal level, there are now 25 active anti-trans bills across categories such as healthcare, student athletics, the military, incarceration and education, in addition to slew ofexecutive orderssigned byDonald Trumpin the first days of his second term.
----------------------------------------