Title: Painkillers don’t work as well for women. Here’s why.
Date: No Publication Date
Content:
The one-size-fits-all approach to pain management should be a thing of the past. But we’re still not there yet.
Pain is one of the oldest complaints in medical history, and for millennia, treatments have been administered with a one-size-fits-all approach. It wasn’t until recently that experts officially acknowledged one radical truth: Womenexperience pain differently than men, and by default, they don’t respond to treatments as well.
Researchshows that girls, women, and people assigned female at birth feel more severe pain than men, and aremore likely to experience chronic conditionssuch as migraine, irritable bowel syndrome, fibromyalgia, and osteoarthritis. Yet, doctors aremore likely to dismiss or ignore them, which leads to delays in treatment that exacerbate their pain.
At the same time,severalstudiesshow that over-the-counter and prescription painkillers like ibuprofen, steroids, and opioids aren’t as effective in women compared to men. And the truth is, expertsstilldon’t understand why, saysElizabeth Losin, a neuroscientist who studies sex differences in pain response and perception.
Before 1993, researchers were not required to include women in clinical research funded by the National Institutes of Health, the largest public funder of clinical trials in the U.S. This was based on the notion thatwomen’s menstrual cycles would skew test resultsand the fear of harming a potential pregnancy. Instead, researchers assumed that if a drug was safe and effective in men, it would be in women too.
(Scientists are finally studying women’s bodies. This is what we’re learning.)
But that couldn’t be further from the truth. “The bottom line is that we don't know as much about women's biology and how it relates to pain as we could and should,” says Losin, a Bennett Pierce Associate Professor in Caring and Compassion in Adulthood and Aging at Penn State University.
Still, scientists are developing some theories about why women experience pain differently and how that limits their treatment options.
Most theories on why some pain medications fall short in women involve sex hormones, saysKiran Patel, director of pain medicine at Lenox Hill Hospital Northwell Health in New York.
Estrogen, which women produce more of than men, slows stomach emptying, increases body-fat ratio, and reduces the amount of certain drug-binding proteins in blood plasma—all of whichresearchshows affects how medications are distributed and broken down in the body.
Women’simmune systems are also more activecompared to men’s partly because of their sex hormones. As a result, women have greater inflammatory responses that could explain why theyuse prescribed painkillers more oftenand need higher doses that they take for longer periods than men.
(How scientists are unraveling the mysteries of pain.)
Two types of anti-inflammatory drugs called glucocorticosteroids and NSAIDS, for example,appear to offer men more pain reliefthan women, according to research.
Studies have also foundsex-related differences in response to opioids, says Amy Baxter, a former pediatric emergency physician and pain researcher who foundedPain Care Labs.
Some have suggested thatwomen have fewermu-opioid receptors, the main protein that binds to opioids and regulates pain. This implies that women could “need more opioids to get the same bang for their buck to overload their pain,” Baxter says. But the jury is still out on this theory becauseevidence is conflicting—some studies have found no difference in doses for women using opioids and still others have suggested they require lower doses.
Because women have historically been excluded from clinical trials, many available drugs have unknown side effects and safety risks for this half of the population.
A 2020studyfound major sex differences in how the body breaks down 86 different drugs, including morphine and prednisone. Women metabolized nearly all of them more slowly than men, which led to higher concentrations of the drugs in their blood and more adverse side effects, including nausea, headaches, seizures, and hallucinations.
Side effects from certain drugs are sometimes so severe that women refuse to take higher doses, Patel says, or quit their medication altogether.
(These are the biggest health challenges women will face in their lifetimes.)
In serious cases, drugs have been discontinued to protect women from further harm. Between 1997 and 2001, the Food and Drug Administrationwithdrew 10 prescription drugsfrom the U.S. market—eight of which were pulled because they posed greater health risks for women, according to a 2001reportby the U.S. Government Accountability Office.
The drug Posicor, for example, which was approved to treat angina and high blood pressure, was found to slow or stop the heart rate of healthy people, particularly older women. Two antihistamines sold under the brand names Seldane and Hismanal were removed because they increased the risk of a potentially fatal heart arrhythmia in women.
Patel says the data reflects what she sees in her clinic and underscores the need to dose men and women differently to avoid unnecessary side effects.
Women who can’t get the pain relief they need may suffer lifelong consequences. For one, their injury or condition is more likely to worsen, extending their recovery time and boosting the odds they develop complications from procedures, Patel says. Meanwhile, daily tasks like work, laundry, or tending to children become extremely difficult to impossible to accomplish.
It doesn’t help that women “have more responsibilities that are non-negotiable,” Baxter says. For instance,a 2019 Gallup pollfound that women in heterosexual relationships were more likely to cook, clean, do laundry, wash dishes, grocery shop, and care for children on a daily basis. “If you’re a male in pain, it’s a lot easier in society to [relax]. But the female existence means there’s no way to opt out…and that could contribute to our pain perception.”
“And so for women, being disabled is a bigger issue,” Baxter adds.
Over time, acute pain can morph into the chronic kind, Patel says. For some people, this might look like anxiety or depression; for others, it could be substance abuse in a last-ditch effort to self-medicate.
And when addictive opioids are involved, the stakes are higher, Baxter says.
“Because women have some degree of reward deficiency, they’re more prone to addiction and opioid overdose,” Baxter says. “So when women start misusing opioids,the amount they use increases faster, and they have more cravings.”
(Could this be the solution to chronic pain—and the opioid crisis?)
Women are also thought to havelower tolerance to opioidsbecause of differences in body mass and metabolism. So they can overdose and develop a dependence on smaller amounts of the drug.
The data are sobering. Although more men die from prescription opioid overdoses than women per year,deaths among women have increased 642 percentsince 1999 compared with 439 percent among men, according to theNIH.
Experts say much more work is needed toimprove transparency within clinical trials so that women can have safe and effective pain relief options.
But there has been some improvement. For example, researchers are trying toidentify biomarkers that could quantify women’s painandspeed the development of new treatments.
In the meantime, self-advocacy is key for women dealing with pain, Losin says.
“When we interact with our medical system, we have to really advocate for ourselves because it doesn't necessarily happen on its own,” she says. “Not that it should be our responsibility, but the more research you can do ahead of time to participate more actively in your care, the better off you’ll be.”
Copyright © 1996-2015 National Geographic SocietyCopyright © 2015-2025 National Geographic Partners, LLC. All rights reserved
----------------------------------------
Title: It’s possible to reverse diabetes—and even faster than you think
Date: No Publication Date
Content:
More than 830 million people worldwide have diabetes—a chronic, debilitating disease. But experts say it’s possible to recover with a few proven lifestyle changes.
Diabetes is a debilitating, life-threatening chronic illness that puts people at greater risk ofblindness, kidney failure, and heart disease. But we’re also increasingly learning that it’s not a condition a person needs to live with forever.
One in 10 peoplein the United States andmore than 830 millionpeople worldwide have the disease—91 percent of them with type 2 diabetes; which, unlike type 1 diabetes, tends to develop in adulthood. About athird of Americans also have prediabetes—though more than 80 percent of themdon't know they have it.
"Type 2 diabetes is like having termites in your home in that it doesn't showmany symptoms at first, but can cause significant internal damage over time," says Osama Hamdy, senior staff physician at the Joslin Diabetes Centerin Massachusetts. "The good news is, we have learned that if we catch the disease and intervene early, we can reverse it or induce remission."
Here's what it takes to reverse type 2 diabetes—and why remission can often happen faster than people realize.
Type 2 diabetes is caused by problems with insulin resistance or production.
Insulin is a hormone released by the pancreas when the food we eat gets broken down into blood sugar, called glucose. It’s triggered to help move the glucose out of the bloodstream and into the body's cells, in order to provide our body with energy and our organs with vital nutrients.
"When someone has type 2 diabetes, this process isn't working properly," explains Sydney Blount, an assistant professor of medicine in thediabetes, endocrinology, and metabolism division at the University of Nebraska Medical Center.
(Why hibernating bears could hold a clue to treating diabetes.)
When insulin resistance occurs in cells—or when the pancreas can't produce enough of the hormone—the excess glucose in the bloodstream becomes toxic to organs and damages blood vessels throughout the body.
"Damaged blood vessels are why diabetes is the leading cause of amputations, erectile dysfunction, dialysis, dementia, blindness, heart attack, and stroke," says ElizabethVaughan, an associate professor at The University of Texas Medical Branch, who has co-authoreddiabetes research. Diabetes can also cause end-stage kidney disease,nerve damage, and several types of cancer.
The good news, though, is that "type 2 diabetes is driven by largely reversible metabolic abnormalities," says Dariush Mozaffarian, a cardiologist and director of the Food is Medicine Institute at the Friedman School of Nutrition Science and Policy at Tufts University. This means modest weight reduction, reduced stress, a healthier diet, and more physical activity “can all work to restore normal function of the body’s organs and tissues,” he says.
Weight lossis the most effective way to induce diabetes remission because "insulin resistance is closely linked to high levels of visceral fat," says O. Kenrik Duru, a professor of medicine at the David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA who has authoredmultiple studiesabout diabetes.
Visceral fat is the internal fat surrounding organs such as the liver and the intestines, which is why people with a lot of visceral fat "tend to have larger bellies." Although we don't understand exactly how it occurs, Duru says, "we know that visceral fat communicates with the organs that absorb glucose from the blood, causing these organs to develop the insulin resistance that leads to type 2 diabetes."
(We’ve been measuring BMI since the 70s—but is the flawed metric still helpful?)
This is further evident aslongitudinal researchshows that a high body mass index (BMI) significantly increases one's risk for type 2 diabetes. "Even a 7percent weight loss improves insulin sensitivity by 57 percent," says Hamdy.
The U.S. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute has anonline toolthat allows you to check your BMI, so you can know what “normal weight” category you need to aim for to be in the clear for developing type 2 diabetes—though the experts emphasize that BMI is not always the best measure of overall health.
Exercisemakes a big difference as well as "physical activity promotes weight loss and also makes your muscles stronger andmore able to absorb glucosefrom the blood," says Duru.
Exercise also "boosts insulin sensitivity" by increasing the ability of muscle cells to transport glucose from the bloodstream, says Vaughan "This is why I always recommend going for a walk after a meal."
(Walking is great for your health. Walking backward? Even better.)
To make sure you're getting enough exercise, the American Diabetes Association recommends getting a minimum of 2.5 hours of moderate physical activity a week or half that of vigorous physical activity—plus strength training at least twice a week.
Changing your diet can also improve your glucose levels "by minimizing blood sugar spikes and slowing digestion," says Vaughan.
Dietary changes might include reducing your total number of calories and limiting your intake of refined grains such as white bread, white rice, and white pasta as these foods can create glucose spikes in the body.
"It's also important to omit added-sugars intake entirely since they are empty calories and have a high glycemic index," adds Hamdy. Other foodshigh on the glycemic indexyou might want to limit include tortillas, crackers, noodles, certain breakfast cereals, and starchy vegetables like corn and potatoes.
(Giving up sugar can change your body for the better—within days.)
It's also important to increase the amount of fiber and protein you eat as fiber slows glucose absorption and improves satiety and protein helps build lean muscle mass. "Opt for minimally processed foods and lean meats," advises Vaughan, "and be sure to drink eight glasses of water daily as water helps your kidneys filter out excess sugar."
Along with weight loss and dietary changes, lifestyle improvementsarealso important. “Not getting enough sleep and experiencing too much stress both raise blood sugar levels,” says Vaughan. “Aim for 7 to 9 hours of sleep and practice relaxation techniques to reduce stress.”
An approach that tackles all these things “will lead to the best results,” says Sun Kim, an endocrinologist at Stanford University, who specializes in treating diabetes.
Such a multifaced approach is so well proven that Hamdy says the Joslin Diabetes Centerhas created a program specifically tailored for diabetes remission. “80 percent of the patients admitted in the program are in diabetes remission within two years,” he notes.
But reversing the disease doesn’t have to take that long for everyone. "The shorter the diabetes duration and the higher the percentage of weight loss, the better the results," says Hamdy.
In fact, once you have lost the excess weight that first put you at risk for developing type 2 diabetes, he says, you may see remission-level glucose numbers in as little as days or weeks—the same way patients who have undergone bariatric surgery often do.
This can also occur through significant dietary improvements if that’s what was causing glucose levels to spike. "A person recently diagnosed with type 2 diabetes can rapidly get blood sugar to normal through diet changes," says Kim, "especially if someone suddenly cuts out a 'big-ticket item' like six regular sodas per day."
Getting back to healthy glucose levels is only the beginning though. Diabetes isn’t considered to be in remission until “glucose numbers are below the threshold for diabetes diagnosis for at least three months without diabetes medications,” says Kim.
In other words, you have to get to remission-level glucose numbersand stay there. And the disease can always return with significant weight increases or the return of bad eating habits.
"It's important to remember that type 2 diabetes is preventable," offers Blount, "and prevention is the best medicine."
Copyright © 1996-2015 National Geographic SocietyCopyright © 2015-2025 National Geographic Partners, LLC. All rights reserved
----------------------------------------
Title: A skull found in Egypt shows this top predator stalked ancient Africa
Date: 2025-02-25T09:00:00-05:00
Content:
The complete hyaenodont fossil holds evolutionary clues about the ancient apex predators
Hyaenodonts, illustrated here, were hyena-sized, meat-eating mammals that hunted through the forests of present-day Africa roughly 30 million years ago.
February 25, 2025 at 9:00 am
In the fossil-rich sands of the Faiyum Oasis in Egypt, archaeologists have uncovered one of the most complete skulls ever found from a formidable family of predators that roamed the Earth roughly 30 million years ago.
The fossil, complete with an upper set of teeth, revealed the animal to be anewly discovered species of extinct hyena-sized mammalsknown as hyaenodonts, researchers report February 17 in theJournal of Vertebrate Paleontology. This species,Bastetodon syrtos, appears to have fewer teeth than its relatives, a catlike adaptation that would have given it a more efficient bite. The new discovery also redraws the family history of this ancient group of predators.
The skull dates back to the Paleogene Period, a time that followed the extinction of the dinosaurs and saw the rapid diversification of many life forms,including mammals. Hyaenodonts were the main meat-eating mammal at the time across what is now Africa and Arabia, and would have hunted through the rich, dense forests which covered the region. These apex predators had large, elongated skulls that housed a lot of teeth. They likely preyed onearly elephants, hyraxes and other animals, including our primate ancestors.
In the lab, the researchers scanned the new fossil and re-created it as a 3-D model. The animal’s long, bladelike back teeth suggested it ate mostly meat, and evidence of strong jaw muscles point to a hefty bite. Yet this hyaenodont had one fewer premolar and molar than its known relatives, an adaptation that would have made its face more compact and its jaw more efficient at closing.Modern cats’tooth count has also reduced over time, which is why they have shorter faces than dogs. So the team took inspiration from Bastet, the ancient leonine Egyptian goddess of pleasure, protection and good health, to come up with a new genus for the predator.Bastetodonliterally means “teeth like the cat-headed goddess.”
The shortened face reflects what Matthew Borths, a paleontologist at Duke University, calls “the pitbullification of hyaenodonts.” Compared with other hyaenodonts, “it’s got this short little muzzle that gave it a strong bite,” he says.
Through comparison with other fossils, Borths and colleagues placedB. syrtosin its family tree and reevaluated the origins of other hyaenodont fossils found at the same site in 1906. Although previously thought to come from Europe, this group — including the new hyaenodont — all descended from a lineage that arose in Africa. This and other finds suggest that their ancestors left Africa in several waves, eventually spreading through Asia, Europe and as far as North America.
Questions or comments on this article? E-mail us atfeedback@sciencenews.org|Reprints FAQ
S.F. Al-Ashqaret al.Cranial anatomy of the hypercarnivore Bastetodon syrtos gen. nov. (Hyaenodonta, Hyainailourinae) and a reevaluation of Pterodon in Africa.Journal of Vertebrate Paleontology. Published online February 17, 2025. doi: 10.1080/02724634.2024.2442472
We are at a critical time andsupporting climate journalism is more important than ever.Science News and our parent organization, the Society for Science, need your help to strengthen environmental literacy and ensure that our response to climate change is informed by science.
Pleasesubscribe toScience Newsandadd $16to expand
science literacy and understanding.
----------------------------------------
Title: Dietary evidence bolsters Clovis hunters’ reputation as mammoth killers
Date: 2024-12-04T14:00:00-05:00
Content:
A chemical analysis provides direct proof that the ancient North Americans ate mammoths
Whether North America’s ancient Clovis people regularly hunted mammoths (illustrated) has been hotly debated. Now, a chemical analysis of Clovis remains suggests the megafauna were a substantial part of their diet.
Eric Carlson/Desert Archaeology Inc., Ben Potter/Univ. of Alaska Fairbanks, Jim Chatters/McMaster Univ.
December 4, 2024 at 2:00 pm
Ancient North Americans are looking more and more like experienced mammoth killers.
Archaeologists have long debated whether the Clovis people, who lived around 13,000 years ago,had the know-how and technologyto regularly hunt the megafauna (SN: 1/11/22). A new chemical analysis suggests that the Clovis dietwas indeed dominated by mammoth, scientists report December 4 inScience Advances.
Arguments for whether Clovis people were primarily hunters or foragers have relied on the location of spearheads, tests of reconstructed spears and knowledge of modern foraging behavior. The new dietary analysis provides direct evidence that these ancient people may have relied on mammoths as a food source, supporting claims that they were experienced megafauna hunters.
“It wasn’t a hint of evidence, it was a ‘slap in the face’ of evidence,” says archaeologist James Chatters of McMaster University in Hamilton, Ontario.
Chatters and colleagues, in consultation with Native American tribes, analyzed the remains of the only confirmed Clovis individual — an 18-month-old male called Anzick-1 found in Montana. The team focused on certain forms, or isotopes, of the elements carbon and nitrogen that were deposited from food into his bones. Since the child probably would have been nursing, his isotope values reflected those of his mother, providing clues to her diet.
Teasing out what the mother ate required comparing her calculated dietary isotope values with those found in potential prey species. The researchers then calculated the likely contribution of each species she ate to her overall diet. Mammoths contributed 35 to 40 percent, the team found, with elk, bison and camel contributing much less. Small mammals made up only 4 percent of her intake.
The percentages aren’t a snapshot of a meal but rather reflect at least a year of the woman’s diet, as the isotopes take time to build up in tissues. And since the Clovis people in western North America shared similar behaviors and equipment, it’s probable that others would have had similar diets too, the team says.
“This is not just a single site with a single meal of mammoth,” says coauthor Ben Potter, an archaeologist at the University of Alaska Fairbanks. “This is a tradition of the people.”
Other researchers are more cautious. “It’s certainly a first to see evidence of mammoth in [Clovis] human remains,” which is a “big deal,” says anthropologist Vance Holliday of the University of Arizona in Tucson. But such sweeping assumptions can’t be made from a single skeleton, he says. “I don’t know how you could ever test them unless you found more human remains.”
Questions or comments on this article? E-mail us atfeedback@sciencenews.org|Reprints FAQ
J. Chatterset al.Mammoth featured heavily in Western Clovis diet.Science Advances. Published online Dec 4, 2024. doi: 10.1126/sciadv.adr3814.
Anna Gibbs was the spring 2022 science writing intern atScience News. She holds a B.A. in English from Harvard College and a master’s in science, health and environmental reporting from New York University.
We are at a critical time andsupporting climate journalism is more important than ever.Science News and our parent organization, the Society for Science, need your help to strengthen environmental literacy and ensure that our response to climate change is informed by science.
Pleasesubscribe toScience Newsandadd $16to expand
science literacy and understanding.
----------------------------------------
Title: Spooky floating lights in South Carolina could be earthquake farts
Date: 2025-02-11T09:00:00-05:00
Content:
Gases that rise from the earth could explain sightings of floating balls of light
The slight offset in this railroad track located between Charleston and Summerville in South Carolina may have been created by an earthquake in 1886. The fault that hosted that quake is thought to be located about 500 meters underground, which would explain why motion on the fault has smoothly shifted the track sideways instead of sharply displacing it.
February 11, 2025 at 9:00 am
A South Carolina ghost story could have a very earthly explanation.
Starting in the 1950s, folks in the Summerville, S.C., area began reporting sightings of strange balls of light floating down a remote road near some former railroad tracks. Local lore has it that the eerie illuminations, known as the Summerville Light, are the glow of a lantern carried by a forlorn ghost.
But perhapsearthquakes are the source of this phantom light, and of some other ghostly legends too, geologist Susan Hough proposes January 22 inSeismological Research Letters. Radon, methane or other gases that rise from the ground during quakes could have been ignited by static electricity or sparks from shifting rocks or passing trains, causing the vapors to luminesce, suggests Hough, of the United States Geological Survey in Pasadena, Calif.
Located far from any tectonic plate boundaries, Summerville might seem an unlikely spot for quakes. But in 1886,a temblor of around magnitude 7devastated the nearby city of Charleston, killing 60 people. That event andhundreds of aftershocksover the following decades revealedthe area’s pronounced seismic hazard.
The region is rich in ghost tales too, the most famous of which may be the Legend of the Summerville Light. The story generally goes that one night, a railroad worker’s wife was waiting for him by some tracks when she learned that he was decapitated in an accident. From then on, and even after her death, the woman returns to the tracks each night, carrying a lantern as she searches for her husband’s head.
Curious if the light could be explained by a physical mechanism, Hough reviewed books, magazines and online sources for recorded sightings of the mysterious orbs and other supernatural claims from the area. She also studied the area’s earthquake history, focusing on 1890 to 1960 — the period leading up to the start of the sightings.
Only a few quakes were documented during that time span, she found. There was a magnitude 3.9 in 1907, and then in 1959 — around when the sightings began — a magnitude 4.4, followed shortly thereafter by a couple of smaller quakes in 1960. These earthquakes would have most likely been accompanied by additional, even smaller quakes that went undetected, Hough says. Despite their small size, she says, it’s possible that such temblors could have generated earthquake lights without anyone suspecting a quake had occurred.
Other instances of supernatural activity reported in the area, such as cars shaking violently, objects and doors moving spontaneously and footsteps heard in upstairs rooms could also be explained by inconspicuous earthquakes. Many of the reports seem to fit with shaking known to occur at a II on theModified Mercalli Intensityscale, which scientists use to rate quakes based on afflicted damage, Hough says. Shaking is generally considered to be at Mercalli intensity II if it is weak and “felt only by a few persons at rest, especially on upper floors of building.”
Hough’s proposal is reasonable, says earthquake scientist Yuji Enomoto of Shinshu University in Matsumoto, Japan, but more geologic data is needed to clarify which natural mechanism could be behind the Summerville Light. “Specifically, data on the presence of an anaerobic environment containing organic matter capable of generating methane, and the existence of granitic bedrock containing radium, which can produce radon” would be most helpful, Enomoto says.
For Hough, one of the more intriguing implications of the work is the possibility that similar ghost stories elsewhere could be associated with subtle seismic activity. “There’s a bunch of ghosts wandering the rails in different places in the United States … carrying lanterns looking for severed heads,” Hough says. “Maybe they are illuminating shallow active faults.”
Questions or comments on this article? E-mail us atfeedback@sciencenews.org|Reprints FAQ
S.E. Hough.Haunted Summerville: ghost lights or earthquake lights?Seismological Research Letters.Published online January 22, 2025. doi: 10.1785/0220240442.
Nikk Ogasa is a staff writer who focuses on the physical sciences forScience News. He has a master's degree in geology from McGill University, and a master's degree in science communication from the University of California, Santa Cruz.
We are at a critical time andsupporting climate journalism is more important than ever.Science News and our parent organization, the Society for Science, need your help to strengthen environmental literacy and ensure that our response to climate change is informed by science.
Pleasesubscribe toScience Newsandadd $16to expand
science literacy and understanding.
----------------------------------------