Title: The Best Hotels and Resorts in Asia: The Gold List 2025
Date: 2021-12-09T12:00:00.000Z
Content:
All products and listings featured on Condé Nast Traveler are independently selected by our editors. If you purchase something through our links, we may earn an affiliate commission.
Consider the Gold List the answer to the question our editors get asked more than any other: What are your favorite places to stay? Our 31st edition of the world’s greatest hotels and cruises captures nearly a year’s worth of work. This collection represents hundreds of hours of researching, scouting, and impassioned debating by our team of editors in seven cities across the globe. But more than that, it reflects our ongoing love affair with the places where we stay, which often become our gateways to entire destinations. Read on for the best hotels in Asia to inspire your next trip.
See the full Gold Listhere.
This gallery has been updated with new information since its original publish date.
At Gangtey Lodge travel-weary guests are greeted with a welcome song so powerful it reduced our party to tears, a hot towel, sweet tea by the fire, and a five-minute massage. “We wanted to create something for the backpackers that now want a little more luxury,” says Khin Omar Win, who co-owns the lodge with husband Brett Melzer. Luxury here comes in the form of personalized meals but also silence, space, and a sense of being cocooned by the sweet-natured staff who anticipate your every need.From $700. —Anna Prendergast
With its dreamy frescoes, Corinthian columns, and Ostler chandeliers, Hyderabad’s storied Taj Falaknuma Palace had been a beloved residence of the ruling nizam—one of whom was famously depicted on a 1937Timemagazine cover as the “Richest Man in the World”—before falling into disrepair for decades. The hilltop aerie has been a fixture of my annual vacations in Hyderabad, from a childhood visit when it was still shuttered and shrouded in cobwebs to countless intimate dinner parties, afternoon teas, qawwali concerts on the gardens at sunset, and a memorable 75th-birthday celebration for my father last winter—complete with a flute serenade of “Happy Birthday” at breakfast under the stained-glass dome of the Gol Bungalow terrace. For the special way it brings Hyderabad’s rich history and traditions to life at every corner, Falaknuma will always have my heart.From $450. —Sarah Khan
Ian Schrager may have made lobby socializing a thing when he sparked the boutique-hotel revolution back in the mid-80s, but at Dwarika’s it’s all about the courtyard. Soundtracked by birdsong, it feels like being inside a secret walled garden—a bubble of tranquility from the cacophony of Kathmandu. The hotel is both a marvel of conservation and a monument to historic Newari architecture because it was gradually assembled from eaves, windows, and pillars rescued by Dwarika Das Shrestha. Now grandson René is continuing the project, as CEO of Dwarika's Group of Hotels and Resorts. But the property more than a museum piece with yoga lessons on the rooftop, a swimming pool surrounded by sculpted serpents, and some of the best momo dumplings inNepal; this is an immersive, deeply atmospheric microcosm of the Kathmandu Valley.From $410. —Rick Jordan
Serene. Timeless. Escapist. And deliciously crowd-free. Nature and its subtlest micro-shifts are the main protagonists at AmanKyoto. At its heart lies an otherworldly “secret garden” that wavers between wild and cultured, the hotel is set against tumbling mountainside forests in a quiet northeastern corner of the ancient capital. Mindfulness is nonnegotiable while navigating the moss-covered stone pathways or relaxing within the peaceful minimalism of the 24 suites. Housed in clean-lined black timber pavilions designed by Kerry Hill, the accommodations feature tatami floors, hinoki bathtubs, ceramic abstractions, and haiku-inspiring views through walls of windows. Luxury lies in the property’s simplicity: Instead of a swimming pool, picture a small boulder-strewn onsen alongside spa treatments imbued with a sense of the sacred and the intuitive omotenashi warmth of the staff. Food is treated with no less reverence, from meticulous kaiseki craftsmanship at Taka-an to contemporary land-to-table cuisine in the Living Pavilion. All in all? The perfect place to recover from Kyoto temple fatigue—and reconnect with the present moment.From $2,675. —Danielle Demetriou
Some hotels lose their luster after a while. Others, like the Mandarin Oriental,Bangkok, only get better with age. This Southeast Asian hidey-hole has been around since 1876 but doesn't feel mired in the past. Frequent spruce-ups have kept it looking tip-top, while an ever-evolving lineup of a dozen or so restaurants (including the new Kinu by chef Takagi Kazuo and classic Thai restaurant Baan Phraya) keep a finger on the pulse of Bangkok's dining scene. And then there's the spa, with CBD-oil-infused massages, ice baths, and rubdowns using herbs from northeast Thailand's Isan region, that still sits in a league of its own. They just don't make them like this anymore.From $650. —Chris Schalkx
This hotel is much like a cabinet of curiosities and so the vibe is eclectic, hedonistic, and easy-going. Lazy breakfasts lead into lazier lunches and dinners that end when you retire. In between, you could go carpet shopping and visit local attractions, trusting that your G&Ts will be waiting upon your return. You could also view the city as you lounge by the hotel’s rooftop pool and get yourself a massage during which Bach Flower remedies are used. However you play it, you’ll probably leave humming that Edith Piaf number “Non, Je Ne Regrette Rien.” You’ll find the lyrics painted across the red piano in the foyer.From $150. —Prasad Ramamurthy
A hotel for all seasons, the Ritz-Carlton Nikko occupies a prime spot on the skirts of Mount Nantai inside a UNESCO World Heritage site resplendent with ancient temples. The first luxury hotel in this part of the country, just a two-hour train ride from Tokyo, stays true to its bucolic surroundings: In the oblong glass-fronted lobby, there’s a harmonious interplay of light and space and cozy fabrics. The Library and Lakehouse restaurant are warmed by flickering fireplaces; the spa features unique-to-Nikko artworks, including exquisite floral Nikko-bori wood carvings. Subtly textured cedarwood rooms induce a sense of calm with silently sliding doors, fretwork inspired by local Tochigi latticework, puffy white (Western-style) beds, graniteonsen, and balconies where you can wrap yourself in a cashmere blanket, sip green sencha, and watch cormorants and Black Kites flit around the lake.From $880. —Lee Cobaj
A dazzling destination that flashes back beautifully to a bygone age, Sofitel LegendMetropole Hanoihas been a fixture in the heart of the Vietnamese capital since 1901. Behind its classical white façade, two buildings—the original and recently renovated Heritage Wing and the neoclassical Opera Wing, named for its proximity to the Hanoi Opera House—envelop a serene courtyard garden and sparkling pool flanked by a bar. The historic suites, named after famous former guests, including Charlie Chaplin and novelist Graham Greene, exude a sense of old-world grandeur, while its peaceful French Quarter locale makes it a no-brainer when planning a trip to Hanoi.From $330. —Keri Bridgwater
At Suján Jawai, even the sleepiest of heads will find it hard to resist rising early and hopping into an open-top jeep to bounce over ancient granite rocks in search ofRajasthan's wild leopards. Rewilding efforts have helped to protect a rare balance here, where humans and animals live in harmony and mutual respect without conflict. The camp has sleek, uncluttered tents and a pool for cooling post-safari dips. Hearty, healthy food is made with ingredients from local farms and the camp’s kitchen gardens, and tales of the day’s leopard sightings are recounted over G&Ts by the campfire. Hearing the low rumbling call of a leopard reverberating off the rocks in the darkness, you’ll realize there are fewer more magical settings than this.From $1,490. —Nicola Chilton
Silver domes, hand-painted art on the walls, suites with courtyards and plunge pools, marble fountains, and intricately carved statues of pachyderms play their part in the overall scheme of this palace hotel. Spread across eight acres, the 200-key property is nestled in the foothills of the lush Aravalli hills with rooms, restaurants, and villas laid out in a beautifully planned amalgam of indoor and outdoor spaces. The terrace, with its domes and chhatris (named after the famous Hawa Mahal inJaipur’s old city), is perfect for private meals under the stars. What makes The Leela stand out in a city of palace hotels is its integration with Jaipur by way of its art and culture and a curation of experiences including private access for guests to Jaigarh Fort and the City Palace as well as its glamorous soirees like the Writer’s Ball during the Jaipur Literature Festival and the much-feted Leela Maharaja Sawai Man Singh Polo Cup during the season.From $240. —Diya Kohli
The PeninsulaHong Kongis one of those very special hotels whose name causes former guests to go a bit misty-eyed at its mere mention. Since opening on the Kowloon waterfront in 1928, The Pen (as it is affectionately known) has been beloved by both visitors and the people of Hong Kong. And it’s still the place to be—ot just for the sense of history, but because it is simply fabulous. Pull into the driveway in one of the hotel’s 14 Rolls-Royce Phantoms. Take your pick from nine superb bars and restaurants. Have a Margy’s Monte-Carlo facial at the spa, then retire to calming dark veneer and champagne-toned rooms with dazzling harbor views and be attended to by some of the most thoughtful staff in the business. Hong Kong and The Peninsula: It’s impossible to imagine one without the other.From $540. —Lee Cobaj
A ring of a gong and an army of smiles signals your arrival at the Waldorf Astoria Maldives Ithaafushi. Reef villas are cathedral-vast and designed with smooth marble floors, taupe sofas, a minibar stocked with ready-made cocktails, and an outdoor space with a pool large enough for laps at dusk when fruit bats swoop overhead. The culinary choices are staggering and may well offer the most diverse choice in theMaldives. For wellness seekers, the spa excels in its roster of visiting practitioners likeChinese acupuncturists and tarot card readers. Children are in Technicolor heaven here, for here is a sand-dusted, turquoise playground paradise for all generations.From $1,920. —Jemima Sissons
Baliisn’t short on sprawling, sumptuous resorts, but not everywhere has its own open landing space or butlers who can arrange a spiritual cleansing with a local priest under a magnificent statue of Ganesh. The Bvlgari Resort Bali isn’t just any hotel, however. The resort faces a vast expanse of Indian Ocean, with all 59 pool villas sharing the same glorious sea views. Ranging from spacious one-bedrooms with outdoor living rooms to gargantuan five-bedroom mansions with multiple swimming pools, all are sultry cocoons with oversized beds and either showpiece black basalt bathrooms or mosaic marble bathtubs. At night, guests dress up for tasting menus at Il Ristorante by Luca Fantin: tagliolini with Kintamani vanilla butter and caviar, wild snapper with potato spaghetti, Bedugul raspberry crème brûlée. Other sweet spots include the crag-top infinity pool and the beautiful spa, the perfect spot to lie back and count your many blessings.From $2,000. —Lee Cobaj
TheThai capital has no shortage of swanky beds to book, but it's only once in a blue moon that a hotel with such star power as the Capella Bangkok comes around. Opened in 2020 on a garden-clad estate along the Chao Phraya River, this low-rise pile of blonde woods and creamy marble entered the scene with such Bangkok firsts as travertine Jacuzzi tubs on suites' balconies and villas pitched up right on the waterfront. Côte, the hotel's Mediterranean-tinged fine dining spot by Argentine chef Mauro Colagreco, earned a Michelin star within a year after opening, while those in the know flock to the boudoir-like Stella Bar after dark to sip on drinks inspired by some of Bangkok's most storied districts.From $800. —Chris Schalkx
Two years ago my wife and I arrived in Agra on a rainy weekend, and the Amarvilas was closed for a refurb. The hotel we stayed at promised a view of theTaj Mahal; from one particular corner of the roof, up a staircase, you could get a slight glimpse of the dome—if the skies were clear. This time, though, the property was open, and when I walked into the lobby of the renovated Amarvilas, I was unprepared and stunned. Beyond the atrium, rising above a lush green treeline, was the beauty. I spent the next two days doing just what the designers of this grand property intended: gaze at the Taj. Standing less than 2,000 feet from the Taj Mahal, the Amarvilas has the best and most exclusive view of the mausoleum. The architects maximized this by giving each of the 95 rooms and seven suites an unhindered view. The suites take it up a few notches—the daybeds, the shower, and the tub all look over the marbled wonder. What’s more sensuous than a soak on a moonlit night with a view of the Taj?From $750. —Salil Deshpande
Slapdash developments have made it increasingly difficult to findPhuket's postcard fantasy, but even two decades after opening, Trisara still feels blissfully cut off from the fray. Strewn throughout a jungle-cloaked cape in the island's quiet northwest, its villas offer wide-screen sea views and heaps of privacy, while down at the private beach, regulars (many of them of A-list caliber) laze along the 147-foot-long saltwater pool. The resort is also home to Phuket's most ambitious restaurant, Pru, where Dutch chef Jimmy Ophorst earned Thailand's first Michelin Green Star for its zero-waste tasting menus made with homegrown and locally sourced ingredients such as black crab from Phang Nga and caviar from Hua Hin.From $1,000. —Chris Schalkx
----------------------------------------
Title: Tips for Staying Present During Vacation
Date: 2024-11-19T18:10:48.697Z
Content:
All products featured onCondé Nast Travelerare independently selected by our editors. However, when you buy something through our retail links, we may earn an affiliate commission.
I was sailing aroundLake Comoon the penultimate day of a family trip when my mind started to wander from the lakeside mansions and crisp autumn breeze to the dread of returning home. The feeling was familiar, but unlike in the past, I consciously halted these perturbed thoughts. While focused on the glimmering water ahead of me, I whispered to myself, “I am here.” I gazed up at the soaring mountains surrounding the lake and repeated it: “I am here.” I looked around the boat inconspicuously, at my smiling family, and said it again and again, until I felt calmer. Finally, a simplemeditation techniqueI'd been working on revealed its efficacy.
“There's nothing worse than visiting somewhere beautiful but being distracted,” saysAditi Shah, a yoga and meditation instructor atPeloton, an app I use frequently for my own mindfulness practice. “And there's nothing better than being fully present for all the small joys you find in the details.”
I first tinkered with meditation when I moved toNew York Cityin my early twenties. I found reprieve in stillness after chaotic days of rushing around to an assaulting soundtrack of city cacophony. I didn’t stick with it, though; like forming any new habit it required real work, and a few skipped days saw my practice fall to the wayside.
Post-pandemic, however, I physically felt life flying by; I never felt truly present. There were days I couldn’t recall the day, month, or season off the top of my head. So, I pledged to return to meditation. It began as a way to ground myself every morning, to start the day with presence, saying out loud the day and year, and acknowledging gratitude. My experience in Lake Como, though, was one of my first breakthroughs where I truly reaped the benefits of my practice, and recognized its importance in my frequent travels.
“By having a meditation practice, you’re training your brain to notice when you’re not in the present moment, so you can refocus your attention,” sharesLara Grant, a meditation teacher and wellbeing coach. This is particularly useful in travel so that you can attune all of your senses to the present moment: “When you’re sitting on the beach, you’re noticing how blue the ocean is, the sounds of the waves crashing, the smell of salt in the air, and how the sand feels against your skin.”
While noticing these details at the beginning of my travels come effortlessly, as the return home nears, I commonly feel sadness about its ending,anxietyabout the journey home, and stress about jumping back into work. “Meditation can help you process those emotions by simply allowing the feelings to be there while you breathe through it,” explains Grant.
When it came to my time in Lake Como, I still had two more days left in awe-inspiring Italy. Had I succumbed to the end-of-trip dread, I’d have missed out on experiencing that part of my vacation entirely. As meditation and breathwork coach,Briony Gunson, reminds, “you might feel a bit of stress creeping in as your mind drifts to head back home but you also might be in front of a beautiful sunset… the trip isn’t over yet!”
Whether you’re a beginner or well-practiced meditator, sticking to a routine while traveling can present hurdles. Grant advises to start small and simple: carve out five to 10 minutes every morning to set the tone for a present day. “The same way that you prioritize brushing your teeth in the morning, do so with meditation,” she says. You can also add simple mindfulness techniques to help you recenter throughout the day; Grant closes her eyes before every meal, takes three slow, deep breaths and then smells the food before starting to eat.
Finding a mindful mantra that resonates with you can also help tune the mind while on the road. Like my simple “I am here,” Gunson often uses: “I am open to the magic of this present moment.”
Finally, as much as technology can help us stay connected to our practice while on the road, thanks to apps likeInsight Timer,Calm, andHeadspace, technology’s temptation can also be a detriment to staying focused on what’s happening around you. Comparing your holiday to someone else's, checking emails, or texting friends back home can rob you of the minute details. For this reason, Gunson suggests setting technology boundaries.
“If you're traveling in a car and one person is driving, perhaps agree that you'll both be present rather than one person on their phone scrolling,” she says. This also applies to sharing meals, tours, and free time wandering a new city: “Capture the photo as needed,” says Gunson but then put the phone away again.
And when all else fails, remember the setting doesn’t have to be perfect for a meditation. “You don't need to completely shut out the world," says Shah. “Let the outside world be in the background, and your practice take center stage.”
----------------------------------------
Title: The Gold List 2025: Best Hotels and Resorts in Mexico, Central, and South America
Date: 2021-12-09T12:00:00.000Z
Content:
All products and listings featured on Condé Nast Traveler are independently selected by our editors. If you purchase something through our links, we may earn an affiliate commission.
Consider the Gold List the answer to the question our editors get asked more than any other: What are your favorite places to stay? Our 31st list of the world’s greatest hotels and cruises captures nearly a year’s worth of work. This collection represents hundreds of hours of researching, scouting, and impassioned debating by our team of editors in seven cities across the globe. But more than that, it reflects our ongoing love affair with the places where we stay, which often become our gateways to entire destinations. Read on for the best hotels in Mexico and Central and South America to inspire your next trip.
See the full Gold Listhere.
This gallery has been updated with new information since its original publish date.
Tinged red at dawn, the granite towers ofTorres del Paineare a blazing centerpiece in Chile’s premier national park. But no view compares with the scene greeting guests from their bed at this exquisitely crafted lodge. Barely visible along the skyline, the lakeside building sinks comfortably into the landscape, giving all rooms a vista onto the soaring peaks. Light pours through walls of glass to illuminate a panoramic restaurant and spa with an indoor infinity pool, perfect spots to watch clouds dance across big skies. Far from the crowd-clogged trails, the coolly unassuming property invites endless possibilities at the bottom of the world.From $2,094. —Sarah Marshall
Upon my landing at Hacienda AltaGracia’s airstrip, my compa, or personal butler, is waiting with a sea-bean necklace and a refreshing drink—the first hint at the exceptional attention I would receive throughout. The 180-acre jungle resort has 50 casitas featuring a safari-meets-boho design accented by locally made pottery and patterned textiles. Outside is where the real beauty is, though: stunning jungle views, a private plunge pool, and a swinging daybed. Strolling the property, I spot colorful birds, frogs, and, one night, an armadillo. I sign up for a tree climb, which brings me to the top of the rainforest canopy for endless views. But mainly I just want to sip coffee at the excellent Mercado café and spend time at the excellent 20,000-square-foot spa.From $1,980. —Devorah Lev-Tov
More than 35 years ago, when conservationist and entrepreneur Roberto Klabin transformed part of his family’s farm into a high-end lodge, thePantanalwas widely dismissed for being full of flies—but that’s no longer the case. Things are changing in the world’s largest tropical wetland. By habituating jaguars to the sound of vehicle engines, NGO Onçafari has increased sightings of the threatened predators on the property. Go on a game drive, shadow conservation teams, and horse-ride through gallery forests in the (largely) fence-free grounds, while experiencing life on a working cattle ranch. South America’s answer to the Okavango Delta without any of the hype or the crowds.From $1,419. —Sarah Marshall
Turtle Inn, much like Blancaneaux Lodge, its older sibling in theBelizeanjungle, bears the cinematic imprint of owner Francis Ford Coppola. From the tropical exuberance of its entryway and its thatch-roof cottages with hand-carved doors and Japanese baths to the garden pizzeria with its twinkling lights, this is one part Gilligan’s Island, one part barefoot-chic Bali beach club. You wouldn’t be blamed for not wanting to leave this idyllic refuge, but Turtle Inn’s location makes it the perfect jumping off point for riverine adventures and treks into jaguar territory. You’ll always be glad to return, though: to its pools, the beachside bar, and lobster feasts best enjoyed with toes in the sand. But perhaps there is no luxury greater than the warmhearted service extended by staff who treat you just as they would the Coppolas—like returning family.From $419. —Arati Menon
Because it’s located in the jungle between the colonial city of Mérida and the Maya site of Uxmal, Chablé Yucatán has two distinct personalities, making it unique amongluxury resorts in Mexico. The buildings that form the historic two-centuries-old hacienda now house common areas and the gourmet Ixi’im restaurant, and guests sleep in 38 contemporary glass boxes masterfully situated throughout the lush grounds so that each feels remarkably private—your views are of the jungle foliage, not your neighbor. Each casita has its own pool, but there’s also a larger common one for when you’re feeling social. The resort is home to countless iguanas and diminutive Yucatecan deer, and an astounding variety of birdlife. You’ll feel like you have escaped to a unique Eden, only with gracious service.From $1,019. —John Newton
This glass-walled building is a bubble of understated luxury inEcuador’s Chocó-Andean Cloud Forest, the densest spot of biodiversity on Earth. Your own personal guide will take you on hikes through the forest to find butterflies the size of your hand and hummingbirds that will feed from your fingers. In your downtime you can wallow in hot tubs that look over the valley or listen to the sounds of the forest from your room, which has floor-to-ceiling windows that make you feel as if you’re in a tree house. Mashpi leads the world in inspirational conservation, leaving you full of passion and wonder.From $1,595.—Ash Bhardwaj
Just when you think allbeachresortsare made alike, One&Only Mandarina begs to differ. Nestled in the lush hills of Mexico’s Riviera Nayarit—where jaguars skulk in the shadows, colorful birds fly overhead, and the gentle sound of the Pacific urges bone-deep relaxation—One & Only makes it easy to find the big red reset button you’ve been looking for. There’s a traditional temazcal sweat lodge experience at the spa, surfing on a private beach, and even a restaurant that has an Enrique Olvera–designed menu that would draw major crowds in a big city: Carao. Ultimately, though, it’s forgetting about the outside world that is the draw—and promise—of spending a few days here.From $1,290. —Megan Spurrell
Images of the Rockhouse’s thatch-roof stone villas and bright red ladders dropping into the sea have come to represent a certain brand ofJamaican cool. The property, currently celebrating its 50th anniversary, isn’t shy about honoring its place in pop culture history: Bob Marley and the Rolling Stones once jumped off its iconic cliffs, and reggae and dancehall ephemera line the walls. Rooms are simple but still retain an essence of the sleepy 1970s Negril that originally defined the property: Four-poster beds are draped with mosquito nets and decorated with locally sourced quilts; in the villa rooms, palm-fringed outdoor showers mean morning routines are accompanied by birdsong; and the cool, simple stone floors keep you feeling in tune with island life. Meanwhile, food here is a primer in Jamaican classics, especially at jerk spot Pushcart, where DJs take over the sound systems for regular dance parties. The Rockhouse crowd knows how to have a good time.From $175. —Lale Arikoglu
----------------------------------------